NEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 10: Ryan Reynolds attends Netflix's "6 Underground" New York Premiere at The  Shed on December 10, 2019 in New York City. (Photo by Jason Mendez/WireImage)On the first day of each month, the world’s biggest streaming platforms—from Netflix  
  
  NFLX 
  to Hulu to Amazon Prime to HBO—add a number of new titles to their movie libraries. And Netflix has been especially active this month, and will continue to add many new movies to its database throughout the month of November.But on the first day of each month we lose a lot of content as well. Between now and the end of November, Netflix will ditch dozens of movies. Luckily, you’ve got some time left to watch your favorites—or perhaps discover a new favorite.In this article, I’ll highlight ten great films exiting Netflix by January 1, 2022. And at the end of the article, you’ll find a full list of movies leaving the platform this month.Ben Cash, his wife Leslie and their six children live deep in the wilderness of Washington state. Isolated from society, Ben and Leslie devote their existence to raising their kids—educating them to think critically, training them to be physically fit and athletic, guiding them in the wild without technology and demonstrating the beauty of co-existing with nature. When Leslie dies suddenly, Ben must take his sheltered offspring into the outside world for the first time.Captain Fantastic will leave Netflix on December 31.Actor, writer and comic Dave Chappelle loads up a bus with residents of his Ohio hometown and takes them to Brooklyn, N.Y. Once there, the travelers enjoy a concert featuring Kanye West, the Fugees, Big Daddy Kane and others. Rehearsal footage and Chappelle's brand of comedy enliven the proceedings.Dave Chappelle’s Block Party will leave Netflix on January 1.Two badly behaved con artists flee to Los Angeles where they hatch a convoluted plot to steal jewels, in an attempt to avoid paying off a massive gambling debt to a notorious mobster in England.The Con is On will leave Netflix on December 21.After a terrible tragedy, a martial artist retreats to a remote village to gain a new appreciation for the important things in life, but when he returns to the city to reconcile his past with the present, he gets caught up in a duel to the death defending China's honor.Fearless will leave Netflix on January 1.After a long voyage from Scotland, pianist Ada McGrath and her young daughter, Flora, are left with all their belongings, including a piano, on a New Zealand beach. Ada, who has been mute since childhood, has been sold into marriage to a local man named Alisdair Stewart. Making little attempt to warm up to Alisdair, Ada soon becomes intrigued by his Maori-friendly acquaintance, George Baines, leading to tense, life-altering conflicts.The Piano will leave Netflix on January 1.Harlem drug dealer Frank Lucas rises to power in corrupt 1970s New York, equalling and surpassing the notorious Mafia families with the reach of his empire. On the other side of the law, honest cop Richie Roberts dedicates himself to taking down `the most dangerous man walking the streets'. Lucas acts with impunity, smuggling heroin into the US in the coffins of American soldiers killed in Vietnam.American Gangster will leave Netflix on January 1.Salvatore "Sal" Fragione is the Italian owner of a pizzeria in Brooklyn. A neighborhood local, Buggin' Out, becomes upset when he sees that the pizzeria's Wall of Fame exhibits only Italian actors. Buggin' Out believes a pizzeria in a black neighborhood should showcase black actors, but Sal disagrees. The wall becomes a symbol of racism and hate to Buggin' Out and to other people in the neighborhood, and tensions rise.Do the Right Thing will leave Netflix on January 1.Sam Wheat is a banker, Molly Jensen is an artist, and the two are madly in love. However, when Sam is murdered by friend and corrupt business partner Carl Bruner over a shady business deal, he is left to roam the earth as a powerless spirit. When he learns of Carl's betrayal, Sam must seek the help of psychic Oda Mae Brown to set things right and protect Molly from Carl and his goons.Ghost will leave Netflix on January 1.High school student Chris Brander loves his best friend, Jamie Palamino. He finally confesses his feelings, but she tells him that she just wants to be friends, and he leaves town in shame. Ten years later, Chris is a successful record executive and involved with self-absorbed pop star Samantha James. He still pines for Jamie, though, and when his plans to go to Paris for the holidays fall through, he returns to his hometown to try and win her heart.Just Friends will leave Netflix on January 1.Douglas Quaid is a bored construction worker in the year 2084 who dreams of visiting the colonized Mars. He visits "Rekall," a company that plants false memories into people's brains, in order to experience the thrill of Mars without having to travel there. But something goes wrong during the procedure; Quaid discovers that his entire life is actually a false memory and that the people who implanted it in his head now want him dead.Total Recall will leave Netflix on January 1.