Dangerous and sometimes violent actions by passengers on airplanes have spiked in the last year.  While the FAA has imposed large fines, this hasn't stopped the behavior. Stronger actions are needed to stop this bad behavior.The U.S. airlines have had a busy summer that was marked by three big things: a strong return of leisure traffic, tough operations due to a combination of over-scheduling and staffing shortages, and far too many violent onboard incidents that have resulted in injuries and flight risks. Many things can be blamed for this, from inconsistent mask rules to a culture that seems to be accepting terrible behavior with few consequences. Mark Dombroff, an attorney at Fox Rothschild, has come top with five ideas that collectively could put a stop to this terrible behavior. His full text can be seen here, so rather than just repeat what he has written I will list his five items and give my thoughts and how effective each these would be:Sometimes this happens today, but not always. Dombroff suggests that when the FAA proposes a fine for bad onboard behavior, they list the offender’s full legal name. This “town square” approach is simple and likely would be effective. Some may consider this a form of doxing, but that term is associated with malicious intent and this wouldn't be the case here. The idea is not to smear the individual who performs this terrible behavior on an airplane, but rather create a strong incentive not to do it in the first place. Once someone’s name is made public associated with this act, all kinds of consequences for job, family, church, and more could follow. Strong incentive indeed. The FAA proposes fines but does not not have the legal authority to enforce a fine. When the FAA levies a fine, it goes into the U.S. court system where resolutions can take a long time and often settle for pennies on the dollar. Headlines like “FAA proposes more than $500,000 in new fines against unruly passengers” look great, but the bark is often much worse than the bite. This piece of Dombroff’s proposal may be the most difficult to enforce but would also be among the most effective. To be fair, it’s not as if someone thinks carefully about the fine they might receive and the probability of having to pay it before lashing out and punching a flight attendant. But follow-on stories of the hardships this fine caused would serve as another important incentive not to behave badly in the first place.Interfering with the flight crew in the performance of their duties is a criminal offense: 49 USC §46504. This statute allows jail time of up to 20 years for violence against a flight crew member without a weapon, and up to life imprisonment with a weapon. No doubt that flight attendants would support this initiative, as failing to follow orders today usually gets an eye-roll or less as a consequence. Taken with the first two items, being sent to jail, fined a real amount, and having your name published, means that this behavior would stop very quickly after an unfortunate few don't get the message and show the effects for all. This idea is broad but makes a lot of sense, and could apply not only in the case of disruptive passengers. If you are in a restaurant and have a heart attack, an ambulance will be called and your health insurance will cover that cost along with others from your treatment. But if you have that same heart attack on an airplane, the flight may divert to land immediately to help save your life and incur tens of thousands of dollars in expense as a result. None of this is recoverable from the passenger’s insurance, even though the airline is acting as an ambulance in this example. For disruptive passengers, similar costs can be incurred if the plane must delay departure, land at another airport prematurely, or take other actions to deviate from the original flight plan. Recovering these costs which can include fuel, crew costs, other passenger disruption costs from missed connections, and more, could be substantial. If the airlines could make this legally stick, it also creates a pathway for the recovery of flight diversion costs not caused by disruptive passengers.The FAA maintains a “no fly” list for people who they deem could be dangerous to have on board. In addition, airlines individually can choose to ban customers from flying their airline, and this has been done for years. The federal list is a subset of the terrorist watch list, and was established after the attacks on 9/11/2001. This list has not been used to limit passengers from flying that refuse to wear a mask or cause an onboard altercation. Delta has proposed that airlines share their individual lists, but Dombroff’s idea to make this an FAA list makes more sense. It would mean an expansion of this original list idea, or the creation of a new FAA list to make this happen, but it it is very good idea. Behaving badly on one airline and not being able to fly on any airline for some period at least is a big-time consequence. Department of Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg is considering this, too. Collectively, these five initiatives would go a long way toward significantly reducing onboard disruptive acts by passengers. When most of these actions happen, they are spontaneous. Initially, even if all these initiatives were enacted, it might not stop the next rash of actions. But over a short time, the severe consequences that could include jail time, heavy fines, repayment of disruptive expenses, and public awareness of who did it, would likely bring this activity to a minimum. This would be a welcome set of actions to protect flight attendants, flight crews, and all the passengers that behave.