AEW Rampage eight man tag featuring The Elite and CHAOS. AEW Rampage advertised an eight-man tag team match pitting The Young Bucks, Bobby Fish and Adam Cole against Orange Cassidy, Best Friends and Rocky Romero. Rampage also advertised the return of Dan Lambert and Tay Conti vs. Penelope Ford in a submission match. Rampage’s main event was a ten-man battle of Eddie Kingston, Ortiz, Santana, and The Lucha Brothers vs. 2point0, Daniel Garcia and The Acclaimed. Last week’s broadcast of AEW Rampage garnered 503,000 viewers. Both Taz and Ricky Starks were able to speak at length about the spinal stenosis Trent suffered. That’s a scary caveat about how many serious injuries are still prevalent in this business. Orange Cassidy was awesome throughout this match, even performing his version of Undertaker’s “Old School.” The best spot of this match was when Chuck Taylor stopped Trent From doing a dive so he could perform his signature best friends hug. Trent defeated Bobby Fish to win this match, which will naturally lead to tensions between Fish and The Bucks on the road to a potential Elite vs. Undisputed Era match. Dan Lambert mentioned the Jacksonville Jaguars without saying a word about Urban Meyer. That’s how you know these promos might be scripted afterall.Dan Lambert easily got more heat than anybody on Rampage, both to this point and on the entire show. Lambert spicily alleged that Tony Khan was turning this company into a late-nineties WCW. Cody Rhodes interrupted Lambert just as Lambert was burying Rhodes to the Top. Fans still couldn’t help but boo Cody Rhodes, even though he was standing up to Dan Lambert. Fortunately, they cheered for Dustin Rhodes as he made the save for his brother, and even more so for Sammy Guevara. The Bunny got up on the apron instead of getting involved in the match. That’s confusing because this was a submission match, which I don’t think can end in disqualifications. Submissions used include the dragon sleeper, a standing crossface, a modified cravat and a shin-assisted rear-naked choke, which was the finish. Nothing screams “B-Show” like two tag team matches of eight-men or more. Max Caster started with a CIA/JFK reference, but the otherwise promising freestyle was interrupted by a brawl. An MLK reference could have worked just as well with that freestyle. Rey Fenix overshot Daniel Garcia during a frog splash more than Dante Martin overshot MJF on a dive just days ago. Jungle Boy and Luchasaurus could have a great match against the Lucha Bros. Possibly the best match of their AEW careers.