AL KHOR, QATAR - DECEMBER 18: Rais Mbolhi of Algeria lifts the FIFA Arab Cup trophy following  victory during the FIFA Arab Cup Qatar 2021 Final match between Tunisia and Algeria at Al Bayt Stadium on December 18, 2021 in Al Khor, Qatar. (Photo by Michael Regan - FIFA/FIFA via Getty Images)In the annals of soccer history, the extra-time goals from Amir Sayoud and Yacine Brahimi to decide the Arab Cup final and crown Algeria tournament champion for the first time will be mere footnote. That is neither to discount the quality on display from the hosts Qatar and some of the North African behemoths nor to minimize the cultural and sporting importance of the event. It’s a tournament that could well have more merit and depth than the smaller, regional Gulf Cup, but apart from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates only few other countries on the Arabian peninsula have the infrastructure to stage a 16-team tournament of that scale. In reality, FIFA revived the Arab Cup, last staged in 2012, in an expanded format to hand World Cup organizers Qatar another dry run before the global finals in 2022. In many ways, the trophy handover by the Emir of Qatar, the fireworks at both Al Bayt Stadium and at Doha’s Corniche in celebration of soccer and Qatar’s National Day mark the end of Qatar’s preparations for the World Cup. The competition is now truly on the country’s doorsteps. As as a matter of fact, this time next year, the full-time whistle will have sounded on the World Cup, that FIFA awarded in 2010 on a frosty and yet unforgettable afternoon in Zurich amid surprise, outrage and accusations of corruption.The Gulf country has seen a decade of astronomical investment in infrastructure and World Cup venues, spending an estimated $220 billion, with its West Bay skyline reaching ever-more for the sky. It’s a larger-than-life soft power and nation-building project. The Qatari capital is a permanent construction site where laborers toil relentlessly in the heat to ready the city for soccer’s ultimate party. The Arab Cup offered a preview and flavor: a compact World Cup embedded in the Middle East’s culture. More than 500,000 tickets were sold for the 32 matches across six stadiums, all World Cup venues, the bulk to Qatari residents, a figure that exceeded all expectations. The quarter-final between Qatar and the United Arab Emirates at the Al-Bayt Stadium drew 63,439 fans, the single highest attendance ever for a sporting event in Qatar. Organizers staged matches in a bio-secure way - not unimportant during a global health crisis - and tested match-day operations.“The tournament has provided a golden opportunity to test preparations ahead of the World Cup and all relevant infrastructure,” said Abdulaziz Al Mawlawi, Host Country Mobility Operations Director at a news conference. “We have tested all our transport infrastructure, which included Qatar Rail operating 71,000 journeys and running for 21 hours per day, rather than the usual 17 hours. In addition, Ashghal provided 62,000 parking spaces for fans, while Hamad International Airport operated a dedicated terminal to welcome the 15 visiting teams.”That Qatar has the infrastructure and resources to stage the World Cup is no longer in doubt, although the sheer enormity of soccer’s biggest jamboree will pose difficulties for any host country, no matter the size. Since 2010, the Gulf country has hosted a slate of international sporting events, including the 2015 handball world cup, the 2019 IAAF World Championships and the 2019 Club World Cup with success from an operational point of view. But a year ahead of the World Cup, very uncomfortable questions linger over Qatar. Although the government introduced a minimum wage, labor reform remains fragile, according to media reports and human rights groups. The allegations of human rights abuses simply won’t go away. Earlier this year, The Guardian reported that 6,500 migrant workers have died in Qatar since 2010, with 37 deaths linked to construction of World Cup stadiums. The newspaper’s findings ignited a storm of protest in Western Europe, prompting renewed scrutiny on the 2022 hosts. The Arab Cup was not without problems either. In the last month, three Norwegians journalists were arrested by Qatari authorities and Abdullah Ibhais, a former media manager for the local organizing committee, who raised concerns over migrant workers, was convicted to three years in prison on charges of corruption by the Court of Appeal in Lusail where the World Cup final will be played. Ibhais has always denied the charges and says that he was being punished for criticising the handling of a migrant workers' strike. The defendant was not brought to the Court of Appeal, and the defense lawyer was not allowed to speak. The judge took less than 60 sixty seconds to deliver the sentence. Previously, human rights groups called on FIFA to ensure Ibhais received a fair trial, but the world federation, which claimed “to follow this matter closely”, didn’t have a representative in court. In a statement, the family of Abdullah Ibhais said that he stood "in front of a Kangaroo Court", that the "hearing lasted for less than a minute" which "lacks the minimum requirements of justice" and they hold "FIFA responsible”.The state of Qatar, however said that he case “followed all the proper legal procedures and protocol”.With less than one year to go to the World Cup, Qatar enters the final stage of preparations for the World Cup, and those issues will define the legacy of the tournament - not who succeeds France as the world champion.