Controversial right-wing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones sued House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and the select committee investigating the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol Monday, intending to block the committee’s request for his phone records and in-person testimony. Alex Jones, the founder of right-wing media group Infowars, addresses a crowd of pro-Trump  protesters after they storm the grounds of the Capitol Building on January 6, 2021 in Washington, DC. Jones, who has long promoted the debunked idea that the 2020 election was rigged, will “plead his right to remain silent under the Fifth Amendment” should he be required to provide testimony to the committee, according to a lawsuit filed Monday in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.The committee subpoenaed Jones November 22, citing his actions on the day of the riot, specifically leading a group of protestors from a rally at the Ellipse park to the Capitol, according to the committee’s letter informing Jones of subpoenas for his phone records and testimony.The lawsuit contends that the subpoenas are “inappropriate” given that his actions were “journalistic activities as well as protected speech and political activity.”The attorneys representing Jones did not immediately respond to Forbes’ request for comment.Along with former President Donald Trump, Jones was among the loudest voices baselessly spreading allegations of widespread voter fraud in the wake of Trump’s reelection loss. Jones told protesters November 6, 2020 “to go and surround the White House and support the president,” and he later reportedly played a major role in getting protestors to the Capitol on January 6. According to the House committee, Jones helped organize the rally at the Ellipse and “was told by the White House that he was to lead a march from the January 6th Ellipse rally to the Capitol.” Jones is not the only prominent far-right media figure to attract lawmakers’ attention, as former Trump advisor and Breitbart News executive chairman Steve Bannon was indicted on criminal contempt of Congress charges last month for not complying with the select committee’s subpoena.In November, Jones was found liable for damages in his fourth defamation lawsuit related to his claim that the 2012 Sandy Hook school-shooting massacre was a hoax. Trials next year will determine how much he will need to pay families of the victims.Owen Shroyer, a host for Jones’ InfoWars website, was arrested in August on misdemeanor trespassing and disorderly conduct charges at the Capitol on January 6. Jones has not been charged.Alex Jones sues Jan. 6 committee, indicates plan to plead the Fifth (Politico)Alex Jones Calls On Pro-Trump Protesters To ‘Surround The White House And Support The President’ (Forbes)Jan. 6 Rally Funded by Top Trump Donor, Helped by Alex Jones, Organizers Say (Wall Street Journal)House Panel Subpoenas Roger Stone and Alex Jones in Capitol Riot Inquiry (New York Times)