Pedestrians walk past an Anta Sports store in Shanghai earlier this year. Photographer: Qilai  Shen/BloombergChina’s Ding billionaire family that controls Anta Sports – one of the world’s largest sportswear businesses – will donate 84.5 million shares worth HK$9.26 billion or nearly $1.2 billion as of yesterday to a charity, the company said in a statement today. The charity will “collaborate with the company in various aspects including community development and other charitable activities,” the statement said. The share transfer – first to a business called Hemin Holdings, which in turn will donate them to the Hemin Foundation — is part of a pledge by the controlling Ding clan to donate 10 billion yuan, or $1.6 billion, to the Hemin Foundation, the statement said.Individual Anta billionaires from the Ding family include chairman Ding Shizhong and his brother, deputy chairman Ding Shijia. Individual billionaire shareholders also include Anta directors Lai Shixian, the brother-in-law of the Ding brothers, and Wang Wenmo, a Ding cousin. The donation comes amid a high-profile Chinese government campaign to promote “common prosperity” that will help narrow a wealth gap in China. Between 2011 and 2020, the country’s GDP slightly more than doubled, while the collective fortunes of the members of China’s 100 Richest list between 2011 and 2021 have risen approximately six-fold. Entrepreneurs that have announced large donations this year include Xiaomi CEO Lei Jun and Meituan Chairman Wang Xing. China internet heavyweight Tencent has announced corporate pledges of 100 billion yuan for social good.  Anta International, a Ding family holding company, will hold 54.65% of Anta after the donation, down from a previous 57.78%.China’s common prosperity campaign comes alongside a rising concentration of wealth among successful business leaders globally and accompanying political backlash. In the U.S., for instance, President Joe Biden has complained about the amount of tax paid by the 1% wealthiest Americans. On Sunday, Tesla leader Elon Musk, worth $236 billion on the Forbes Real-Time Billionaires List, tweeted that he expects to pay more than $11 billion in taxes this year. Elon Musk says he expects to pay more than $11 billion in taxes this year. (Photo by Patrick Pleul  - Pool/Getty Images)Anta’s stock closed at a one-year low of HK$109.6 at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange yesterday, its lowest finish in a year; it has plunged 42% from a recent high of HK$189 amid fallout from a global spike in Covid-19 cases.An Anta Group-led formally purchased Europe’s Amer Sports in 2019 at a valuation of $5 billion, in a move that was seen as helpful to its business at that pre-Covid moment and ahead of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics.   Amer’s globally well-known brands include Atomic ski equipment, Salomon ski boots and Wilson tennis rackets, among others.  Anta teamed up with Tencent, FountainVest Partners and U.S. billionaire Chip Wilson, the founder of Lululemon sports apparel for the purchase.See related posts here: China’s Richest Get Richer Yet Face Aging, TransitionWhat Decoupling? China Is Deepening Interdependence Of Global Capital Markets, HKEX CEO Says@rflannerychina