LONDON, ENGLAND - DECEMBER 02: Son Heung-min and Harry Kane of Tottenham Hotspur during the Premier  League match between Tottenham Hotspur and Brentford at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium on December 2, 2021 in London, England. (Photo by Sebastian Frej/MB Media/Getty Images)There is very little of Jose Mourinho’s Tottenham Hotspur tenure that the North London outfit’s fans remember fondly. Indeed, the Portuguese coach’s time at Spurs was largely a failure with the former Chelsea, Inter, Manchester United, Porto and Real Madrid boss unable to forge a team capable of challenging near the top end of the Premier League 
  
  PINC 
  table, where the club wants to be.When there were some good times, though, they invariably come through the partnership between Harry Kane and Son Heung-min. While other players in the squad struggled under Mourinho, these two flourished with Tottenham spearheaded by two world class attackers on the same wavelength. They are still the club’s biggest asset.Antonio Conte was brought into the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium to clean up the mess left behind by Mourinho, but he could still learn something from his predecessor by building his attack around the chemistry between Kane and Son and Sunday’s Premier League fixture at home to Liverpool might be the perfect occasion for the pair to be unleashed.ENFIELD, ENGLAND - DECEMBER 17: Antonio Conte, head coach of Tottenham Hotspur during the Tottenham  Hotspur press conference at Tottenham Hotspur Training Centre on December 17, 2021 in Enfield, England. (Photo by Tottenham Hotspur FC/Tottenham Hotspur FC via Getty Images)In their present form, Liverpool might well be the strongest team in English and European soccer with Jurgen Klopp’s side on an eight-game winning run. Even as the home team, Spurs will be underdogs against the Reds and so Conte will almost certainly have to make changes to his team in order to get a result.To date, Tottenham under Conte have played in a 3-4-3 shape. In that formation, though, Spurs risk being overwhelmed by Liverpool in the centre of the pitch. What’s more, Kane and Son could be left detached from each other if the latter is tasked with stopping the progress of Trent Alexander-Arnold down the Liverpool right wing. Conte needs the pair close together.LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 02: Jose Mourinho, Manager of Tottenham Hotspur shakes hands with Harry  Kane of Tottenham Hotspur as he leaves the pitch during the Premier League match between Tottenham Hotspur and Leeds United at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium on January 02, 2021 in London, England. The match will be played without fans, behind closed doors as a Covid-19 precaution. (Photo by Ian Walton - Pool/Getty Images)This is why a 3-5-2 system, like the one Conte used to great effect during his time at Inter where he won the Serie A title, might be the best way forward for Spurs this weekend. At Inter, Conte used Romelu Lukaku and Lautaro Martinez as a front pair to terrify opposition defences with their direct running and pace. Kane and Son could perform a similar role as a duo.“We have an important number nine for sure,” Conte recently explained in an interview, referencing Kane, “but in the past I have seen that Son played in this position. Honestly I prefer Son to play as a number 10 but in the position that he is now playing. I like to have a point of reference as number nine.”Such remarks suggest Conte might not be so keen to deploy Kane and Son as a front two, but the Italian coach has had a lot of free time to ponder things with Tottenham going two weeks without a fixture. Spurs need to harness Kane, who has underwhelmed so far this season. They also need a stronger structure in the centre of the pitch. Mourinho might have inadvertently shown Conte how to achieve both.