Industry analysts expect a wave of mergers and acquisitions as rival SVOD providers consolidate to  better compete with Netflix. (Photo by Chesnot/Getty Images)The number of streaming options continues to proliferate. According to Flixed, there are now over 200 streaming providers worldwide. In 2021 Deloitte estimates in the U.S. an estimated 80% of U.S. households had at least one SVOD provider. Leichtman Research Group found 78% of all U.S. households have a subscription video on-Demand (SVOD) service from at least one of the three most established providers; Netflix 
  
  NFLX 
 , Amazon Prime, and Hulu. In just a few short years SVOD has become a commodity in tens of millions of households. Much of the growth has been fueled by content. A study from Hub Entertainment Research found about one-third of streaming video subscribers had signed up for a service for just one show/movie unavailable anywhere else. This consumer behavior mirrors the premium pay cable industry. For example, despite producing some of the most iconic programming in the past 25 years, the household penetration of HBO subscribers never approached 50%. Subscriptions fluctuated based on the airing of popular limited series programs such as The Sopranos or Game of Thrones. Clearly, viewers have shown a proclivity not to pay for a service they don’t use. This puts pressure on SVOD programmers to find the next “big hit” as soon as possible.Another example of viewers canceling their subscriptions for lack of use is basic cable. According to Nielsen, in 2008, the average number of TV channels available in a household was 129. Five years later, the number grew to 189 channels. Despite the substantial increase in channels available, the number of channels actually viewed per household each week remained at 17. This is a primary reason that media conglomerates bundled their networks when negotiating subscriber fees with cable operators. As prices continued to escalate and other viewing options became available, subscribers eventually balked at paying for channels they never watched, leading to cord cutting. Digital media is another example, despite all the ad supported online choices now available, the digital duopoly remains popular. eMarketer forecasts Facebook and Google are expected to account for over half the digital media dollars invested in 2021 (when Amazon is added the share of market increases to 61%). Media consumption patterns are prevalent in other media too. Every person has their favorite radio stations (preset in their cars) and podcasts. Also, readers will pay to subscribe to their favorite magazines, newspapers and websites. SVOD is also facing  similar challenges. With the lockdown and the launches of new SVOD services, the average number of SVOD services consumers subscribed to increased. As persons returned to their pre-pandemic activities (i.e., returning to the office), the number of SVOD per household flattened. An indication that, similar to the amount of television channels viewed, radio stations listened to or magazines read, consumers also have limitations with the amount of streaming video providers they will watch and subscribe to. Subscriber counts for several SVOD services have been slowing after a period of rapid subscriber growth. Disney’s 
  
  DIS 
  latest earnings report released in October 2021, found 2.1 million net new subscribers worldwide, down from 12.1 million from the previous quarter. Other more recently launched SVOD services from NBCUniversal, WarnerMedia and ViacomCBS have also recently reported sluggish subscriber growth. Expect the slow growth to continue into 2022, Deloitte estimates in 2022 churn will increase by 30%, as 150 million SVOD subscribers worldwide are expected to cancel a service. To sustain growth, Jon Giegengack, the Founder and Principal of Hub Entertainment Research, expects consolidation and mergers to drive greater competition than Netflix has seen before. “Netflix has dominated streaming, but as competing media companies invest more in content and networks to save their best IP for their own platforms, Netflix will have to fight harder to maintain its position as the ‘home base’ for streaming consumers.” The first consolidation merger in the SVOD era was when Disney acquired assets from Fox which was approved by government regulators in March 2019. The $71.3 billion deal gave Disney access to the extensive content library from Fox. The deal provided programming for Disney+ which was launched that November as well as a majority stake in Hulu. More recently, in May 2021 Discovery 
  
  DISCA 
  announced plans to acquire WarnerMedia from AT&T 
  
  T 
  for $43 billion. The consolidation of two media conglomerates will make it more competitive with Netflix and other large SVOD providers. Despite some anti-trust concerns from Congress, the deal is expected to be finalized by mid-year 2022. There are other strategies SVOD services can use to compete with Netflix and others including bolstering their programming library. For example, in May 2021 Amazon announced they will acquire the MGM library for $8.5 billion. Other content libraries may soon be sold to SVOD providers such as Lionsgate or AMC. Another strategy is consolidation, in April 2021, NBCUniversal folded the streaming WWE Network into Peacock. eMarketer expects in the future media conglomerates will further consolidate their streaming assets. Hulu could consolidate with Disney+ and ViacomCBS may fold Pluto TV into Paramount+. Of course, there could be more blockbuster mergers among media conglomerates. Based on consumer behavior there will be only a handful of successful SVOD providers in the years ahead. These services will need a steady stream of compelling content and at an affordable price. In 2022 and beyond the industry can expect a wave of mergers, partnerships and acquisitions as the SVOD market consolidates. The goal is to be one of a handful of SVOD survivors.