PHILADELPHIA, PA - OCTOBER 14: Tampa Bay Buccaneers Wide Receiver Antonio Brown (81) looks on during  the game between the Philadelphia Eagles and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on October 14, 2021 at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, PA.Antonio Brown’s on-field talent has given him yet another opportunity to atone for his mistakes.The once-top receiver in the NFL will be available for the final three games of the regular season and will have the opportunity to hit some major salary escalators, each of which eclipsing the salary he lost due to his suspension.Yesterday, Tampa Bay Buccaneers General Manager Jason Licht announced that Brown would return to the team this week following his three-game suspension for reportedly faking his Covid-19 vaccination card. Head coach Bruce Arians confirmed Licht’s earlier statement following the Buccaneers’ 9-0 loss on Sunday Night Football, saying “it’s in the best interest of our football team” to have Brown back, per The Athletic. Brown is now fully vaccinated, according to the league office. Arians’ statement was following a game in which Tampa’s top receivers Mike Evans and Chris Godwin left with injuries, furthering the team’s need for Brown in the lineup. NFL.com reported Monday that Godwin would miss the rest of the regular season with a sprained MCL.Now that he is back with the team, Brown has a golden opportunity to earn back the $183,333 in game-day salary that he lost due to suspension through the performance escalators in his contract, according to Spotrac. Over his final three regular season games, Brown needs to reach 50 receptions, 600 receiving yards or 5 receiving touchdowns to earn a $333,333 bonus for each individual achievement. Brown currently has 29 receptions, 418 receiving yards and 4 receiving touchdowns, keeping those bonuses well within reach after he retakes the field. Should Brown somehow manage to reach 70 receptions, 800 receiving yards or 7 touchdown receptions, he would receive another $333,333 bonus for each individual achievement.And should the Buccaneers manage to repeat as Super Bowl Champions and Brown plays at least 45% of the snaps in that game, he would receive a $250,00 bonus. Brown’s base salary for the 2021 season, before his suspension, is $916,887. Hitting any of the regular salary escalators will serve as a massive bonus, worth more than one-third of his base salary. Buccaneers quarterback Tom Brady has long been a proponent of Brown, pushing for him to be signed by the Patriots in 2019 and again with the Buccaneers in 2020. Now that his other top receivers have gone down with injuries, Brady could look at Brown as his top receiver once again.