The BMW i3 was one of the seminal vehicles that showed how electric cars could work for everyday use. Not only that, whether you love or hate the looks, it made a statement on the road, and still does. But more recently BMW’s electrification plans have stalled, with only the exceedingly fun but range compromised Mini Electric arriving since the i3’s introduction for mainstream buyers. Now, however, BMW is back with a brand-new range of pure electric platforms. The most exciting one is the i4, which is clearly aimed at the Tesla Model 3. But can it really compete?The BMW i4 M50 is ready to munch through miles at high speed and in considerable comfort.BMW has been the king of European saloon car manufacturers for decades, although Mercedes and Audi might have a few issues with that statement. Here in the UK, the 3-series BMW is ubiquitous, offering an undeniable blend of driving thrills and four-door practicality. The 320d took over from the Ford Mondeo as a more upmarket transport for sales reps, able to chew through miles with purposeful intent and reasonable economy. The i4 is clearly a larger vehicle but sits in the same category as the 3- and 5-series, aimed at high mileage business drivers who may also want to transport their families.It is a bit longer than a Tesla Model 3, but otherwise has very similar dimensions – and intentions. This is another car that’s meant to be the electric saloon/sedan for the mainstream premium market, which surprisingly hasn’t been a popular category for EVs yet with many other automakers. Only the Model 3 and Polestar 2 compete in this area, with most other manufacturers aiming at SUVs and crossovers.The M50 has all-wheel-drive and huge amounts of power.There are two main flavors of i4 at launch. The eDrive40 is rear-wheel-drive with 340hp, and the M50 is all-wheel-drive with 544hp. Then there are two trim levels of i4 eDrive40 – the basic Sport and the M Sport. Pricewise, the eDrive40 and M50 are broadly competitive with the Tesla Model 3 Long Range and Performance respectively in the UK. The i4 eDrive40 starts at £51,905 ($68,800) for the Sport and £53,405 ($70,800) for the M Sport. The i4 M50 is £63,905 ($84,700). In contrast, in the UK, the Tesla Model 3 Long Range is £49,990 ($66,300) and the Performance is £59,990 ($79,500). So the BMW i4 is a little more expensive but not extortionately so, although option packs will push the price up a bit further.The i4 I drove was the M50. Having arrived in a Tesla Model 3 Performance for the launch event, I had the perfect comparison. The M50 takes 3.9 seconds to reach 62mph, whereas the Model 3 Performance takes 3.1 seconds to hit 60mph. But the latter is also with rollout so in practice the Tesla is likely to be only fractionally quicker. However, the throttle isn’t quite so brutally responsive on the BMW. The torque is still very immediate, but takes a split second longer to kick in.The i4 eDrive40 is considerably slower, taking 5.7 seconds to hit 62mph. That is also a lot more than the Tesla Model 3 Long Range, which hits 60mph in 4.2 seconds and can be upgraded to make it 3.7 seconds. The Polestar 2 Long range Dual motor should also be mentioned here, as that can also be upgraded to hit 62mph in 4.4 seconds and is quite a bit cheaper than either BMW or Tesla.The i4 M50 is an incredible driver's car, as you'd hope from a high-performance BMW.If you’re a previous BMW owner, it’s likely that one of the things you most liked about your car was the steering. Every BMW I’ve driven, even old and tired ones, have incredibly solid, precise handling. The i3 has this too. The i4 M50 has it in spades. Once you get used to the dynamics, you will be throwing this large, heavy car around corners with immense confidence. The eDrive40 weights 2,050kg, and the M50 is 2,215kg, both of which are a lot more than a Tesla Model 3 Dual Motor. However, the Porsche Taycan is also heavy but dynamically brilliant. The i4 M50 still manages to be an involving car when pushed, in a similar fashion to the Taycan.So the i4 M50 is very much a driver’s car. The handling isn’t quite as awe-inspiring as the Porsche Taycan 4S or Turbo, but it’s still excellent. The center of gravity is lower than a 3-series, although strangely 34mm for the M50 and a larger 53mm for the edDrive40. BMW has found a commendable middle ground in ride quality too, which is firm enough for dependable roadholding at the same time as being soft enough to deal with uneven surfaces and bumps.One of the things that might well tempt you towards BMW from Tesla is the interior. The Model 3 is famously spartan inside, with very few buttons and just the giant central screen to control virtually everything. BMW has reduced the complexity of its control systems for the i4, but there are still plenty of discrete buttons for important functions. Nevertheless, the dashboard is dominated by a wide dual screen display that spans from the instrumentation behind the steering wheel to media and infotainment in the middle. This runs the 8th generation of BMWs operating system and is packed with connected features. There’s a HUD on the M50 that adds useful info right in the drivers view.The BMW i4 has loads of space in the rear for luggage.Like the Polestar 2, and unlike the Model 3, the i4 is actually a hatchback disguised as a four-door. This means that the opening into the boot / trunk is much taller than the Tesla, which many will appreciate. The door also has an electric release and close, like the Polestar 2 and 2021 Tesla Model 3. The luggage capacity in the rear is a very commendable 470 liters with the rear seats up, and 1,290 liters with them down. These are both larger figures than the Tesla Model 3, and you also get the option to open the middle section of the rear seats on its own for a long item, while leaving the two outer seats up for passengers. The i4 can tow, too – up to 750kg unbraked, and a decent 1,600kg braked.BMW clearly wanted to take Tesla on fully when it comes to range. After all, this car is meant to be a “bahn stormer” capable of long journeys at speed and in comfort. This is what BMWs are famous for. The WLTP range of the two i4 flavors is quite differentiated, however. The eDrive40 can go for 367 miles – even more than a Tesla Model 3 Long Range, and one of the longest of any current EV. The M50 has a more modest 316 miles of range, which is lower than the current Tesla Model 3 Performance’s 340 miles.BMW has simplified its interior, but not to Tesla levels.Still, both i4 versions should be more than capable of lengthy travel, aided by BMW’s bundled charging membership, which includes bp pulse and IONITY in the UK, as well as around 170,000 chargers across Europe. DC charging up to 200kW is supported, too, so you will be able to replenish the 83.9kWh battery (80.7kWh net) quickly with a powerful enough charger.So has BMW finally given Tesla’s imperious Model 3 something to worry about? Well, there is no version of the i4 cheap enough to compete with the Standard Range Plus, which is now a bit slower than it was at launch but has a longer 305 miles of range than before. It is £8,000 ($10,600) cheaper than the i4 eDrive40 Sport, but the latter is a little quicker and has longer range. While the i4 eDrive40 isn’t as quick as the Model 3 Long Range, its WLTP range is a longer here too. The BMW brand may well convince quite a few to purchase this model despite the higher price.The i4 looks like a four-door sedan, but it's actually a hatchback.The M50, however, is a more clearly tempting proposition. The extra weight negates the additional engine power it has over the Tesla Model 3 Performance and means it’s not an heir to the legendary fossil fuel-driven BMW M3s of yore. But it is brilliant to drive, very comfortable on long journeys, and extremely well equipped. It doesn’t trounce Tesla but shows that BMW knows how to put a quality performance EV together. I fully expect senior company executives to be driving them in droves when deliveries arrive in 2022.