INCHEON, SOUTH KOREA - NOVEMBER 28: Jin of boy band BTS attends the 2018 Asia Artist Awards on  November 28, 2018 in Incheon, South Korea. (Photo by Han Myung-Gu/WireImage)On this week’s Hot Trending Songs chart, Billboard’s ranking of the most-talked-about tracks on Twitter, Jin debuts his new standalone release “Super Tuna” at No. 12. The title is one of several new arrivals on the social-focused tally, and with another placement to his credit, the superstar breaks out of a tie with one of his bandmates and establishes himself as the most successful artist in the still-short history of the list.As “Super Tuna” debuts, Jin collects his seventh hit on the Hot Trending Songs chart, combining his solo efforts and the music he’s made as a member of BTS. He’s landed on the tally twice on his own and five times with the septet that made him a global star.Jin first reached the Hot Trending Songs chart on his own with his solo tune “Yours,” which was a hit on a number of Billboard rankings. The track rose as high as No. 5, and it is still going strong on the 20-spot tally this frame, dipping to No. 18. “Yours” has now found space on the roster for a month. “Super Tuna” instantly doubles his total number of placements as a soloist.BTS has pushed five different tracks to the list of the most-discussed tunes on Twitter, and the band claims two of the three titles that have made their way to the summit. The septet inaugurated the Hot Trending Songs chart with their single “Permission to Dance,” which managed one turn atop the list. Since then, the same band’s “Butter” has run the show almost every other week, except for one period when SB19’s “Bazinga” replaced the seven-member vocal act on the throne.In addition to their pair of winners, BTS’s other singles “Dynamite” and their collaborative tunes "Boy with Luv" with Halsey and “My Universe” have all appeared on the Hot Trending Songs chart as well. With another solo win, Jin breaks out of a tie with fellow BTS member Jung Kook, who has collected half a dozen placements on the Hot Trending Songs chart. Just like his bandmate, Jung Kook has scored five smashes with the septet, as well as a hit on his own with “Falling,” a cover of a Harry Styles song.