LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA - NOVEMBER 21: (L-R) Jimin, J-Hope, Jin, Jungkook, RM, Suga, and V of BTS  perform onstage during the 2021 American Music Awards at Microsoft Theater on November 21, 2021 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images for MRC)BTS is back at No. 1 on Billboard’s Digital Song Sales chart this week, as their tune “Butter” just keeps selling like no other tune this year. The track, which wasn’t even present on the 50-rung tally last frame, returns to the top of the list out of seemingly nowhere, and by finding its way to the summit once more, it helps the band make very important history.The South Korean septet has now ruled over the Digital Song Sales chart, Billboard’s ranking of the bestselling tracks in the U.S. every frame, for 46 weeks. This latest winning period makes them the musical act with the most turns on the throne, and they break out of a tie with one of the most successful artists of all time.Before “Butter” vaulted back to the No. 1 spot on the Digital Song Sales chart, BTS was tied with Taylor Swift for the most weeks atop the purchase-only tally. Now, the South Korean band has passed the country/pop/alternative star, perhaps for good…at least in this respect. Swift continues to lead when looking at the artists with the most No. 1 hits, and nobody is even close to matching her record. The “Cardigan” star has accrued a whopping 23 chart-toppers. So far, Rihanna has come closest to tying her record, but she is still behind by nine wins.BTS is currently tied with both Bruno Mars and Beyoncé when it comes to the number of leaders they’ve landed, as all three globe-dominating acts have appeared at No. 1 with nine different tunes. So far, the South Korean boy band has managed to rise to the summit with all of the following smashes: “Dynamite,” “Butter,” “Permission to Dance,” “Life Goes On,” “On,” “Fake Love,” “Film Out,” “Idol” with Nicki Minaj and “My Universe” with Coldplay.The K-pop powerhouses are also in charge when it comes to the longest-running champions in the history of the Digital Song Sales chart. BTS’s “Dynamite” and “Butter” have both spent 18 weeks at No. 1 on the ranking, and the two rank as the tunes with the most frames atop the list. This week, “Butter” matches the previous “Dynamite” smash with an eighteenth turn in first place.