PARIS, FRANCE - SEPTEMBER 20: Juice Wrld performs at Elysee Montmartre on September 20, 2018 in  Paris, France. (Photo by David Wolff - Patrick/Redferns)For the first time in either of their careers, both Juice WRLD and Suga of the band BTS claim the bestselling song in America. The musicians are set to debut their joint single “Girl of My Dreams” at No. 1 on the Digital Song Sales chart, which lists which tunes actually sold the most copies in the U.S. (as opposed to rankings like the Hot 100, which includes other forms of consumption as well). “Girl of My Dreams” will officially debut at No. 1 on the Digital Song Sales chart Billboard will publish tomorrow (December 21), though the track has already officially been named the winner of the week. According to information shared by MRC Data, the collaborative cut sold just over 40,000 copies in the U.S. in its first full tracking frame of availability. That’s a very healthy sum, and it puts the tune ahead of big hits by the likes of Elton John and Dua Lipa, Ed Sheeran and Mariah Carey.Before “Girl of My Dreams” arrived, both WRLD and Suga had topped out at No. 2 on the Digital Song Sales chart, missing the throne by a single space. The late rapper’s “Come & Go” with Marshmello stalled in the runner-up space last summer. Suga’s “Daechwita,” released under his Agust D moniker, also peaked in second place in 2020. “Girl of My Dreams” is officially credited to WRLD as the lead artist and Suga as a featured act. The latter musician is actually named as Suga of BTS, as some of the rapper’s fans might not be familiar with Suga on his own, but they will surely know who BTS is. Some platforms labeled the track as featuring Suga from BTS, while others listed both Suga and BTS, suggesting the full band was included as well. In the end, the credit goes to just two stars.“Girl of My Dreams” is featured on WRLD’s second posthumous album Fighting Demons, which debuts at No. 2 on this week’s Billboard 200, landing behind only Adele’s 30. The set is the hip-hop talent’s fourth full-length overall, with half of all his albums arriving after his tragic passing in December 2019. The Suga-featuring tune was pushed as a promotional single, and it was clearly the focus for fans buying and streaming as the album hit. Before the title arrived in full, the proper singles “Already Dead” and “Wandered to L.A.” with Justin Bieber both landed the Hot 100.Since “Girl of My Dreams” sold so well in its first tracking frame, chances are it will reach the Hot 100 as well. Billboard should announce where the tune lands, if it makes it to that tally, within the next few hours. The Hot 100 will be refreshed in full tomorrow.