The 18th hole at Bayonet Golf Course in Seaside, California. Bayonet is part of a 36-hole facility  on a former military base that's set to become the newest golf resort development on the Monterey Peninsula. Just up the California coast from Pebble Beach Golf Links, about 12 miles by car in the town of Seaside, is the 36-hole facility of Bayonet and Black Horse. The property, which boasts views of the Monterey Bay and was built on the former Fort Ord Military Base that closed in 1993, is set to be the site of a new golf resort development. SKDG Capital this month completed a $25 million purchase of the two courses and an adjacent 81-acre site that’s long been positioned as a potential site for a hotel and townhouses, according to Golfweek. Dr. Kiran Patel, a South Florida-based cardiologist and serial entrepreneur who heads the new ownership group, said in a press release issued by Troon that they will “enhance and improve the golf experience” at Bayonet and Black Horse while concurrently developing a new hotel on the property. Troon, the world’s largest golf management company, will oversee golf operations, food & beverage, golf course agronomy, and sales and marketing for the two courses. A timetable for the planned hotel hasn’t been announced. Bayonet is considered by many to be the most challenging test of golf in the Monterey Peninsula, even in the wake of a 2008 renovation by architect Gene Bates to improve the layout’s playability and strategic options. The course, originally built in 1954 and named after the 7th Infantry “Light Fighter” Division that was the last major unit to occupy Ford Ord, has narrow fairways that are lined with oak and cypress trees, and greens that are guarded by steep, penal bunkering. Black Horse was added in 1964 and is a bit more open, with fescue-framed fairways, serrated-edge bunkers, contoured greens and captivating views of the Monterey Bay. It was originally designed by Ford Ord’s Commanding General at the time, Edwin Carnes, and named in honor of the 11th Calvary Regiment, which was stationed across the Bay at the Presidio of Monterey. The Bayonet and Black Horse golf courses are just up the coast from courses on 17-Mile Drive like  Pebble Beach, Spyglass and Spanish Bay. (Photo By MICHAEL MACOR/The San Francisco Chronicle via Getty Images)“Bayonet and Black Horse, and the former military base they were built on, have an incredible history in the Bay Area,” said Patel, who has a college of Osteopathic Medicine that bears his name at Nova Southeastern University in Fort Lauderdale. Patel and his wife, Pallavi, who is also a doctor, are active philanthropists who founded the Patel Foundation for Global Understanding, a nonprofit organization that develops and funds a variety of programs in healthy, education, arts and culture. While the hotel is still in the planning stages, the purchase includes the clubhouse and golf shop, meeting facilities, and the Bayonet Grill, a casual restaurant with indoor and patio seating featuring views of the Monterey Bay.“The opportunity to manage a tremendous property such as Bayonet and Black Horse is very exciting,” said Darrell Morgan, Vice President Operations, Troon. “We are confident that our management practices and dedication to outstanding service will make an already exceptional property even better.”RELATED CONTENT: Why Did the U.S. Army Partner With GolfNow? Stix: The First-Year Success Story Of A Golf Equipment Company Started During The Pandemic SentryWorld Introduces Unique $275 All-Inclusive Golf Experience In Wisconsin