An apparent J-15T taxiing, possible in December 2021.The Chinese navy is about to get a new aircraft carrier—its first with catapults, which allow a flattop to launch heavy planes.And it’s becoming increasingly clear which of the Chinese navy’s aircraft will operate from the Type 003 carrier when she’s commissioned some time in the next couple of years. For starters, most likely, an upgraded version of the navy’s stalwart J-15 fighter.The roughly 100,000-ton-displacement, non-nuclear Type 003 is in the final stages of her years-long construction at a shipyard in Shanghai.In anticipation of the new flattop’s entry into service, Chinese industry has been working with the People’s Liberation Army Navy to develop several new aircraft types that, together, could give the Type 003 many of the same capabilities that the U.S. Navy’s own carriers possess.The Shenyang Aircraft Corporation this fall flew the first copy of its new J-35 carrier-borne stealth fighter. That flight came a year after the Xi’an Aircraft Industrial Corporation first flew its KJ-600 airborne-early-warning twin-prop. Back in 2019 we got our first good look at the Harbin Aircraft Industry Group’s Z-20F naval helicopter.Those three types should give the Type 003’s air wing a stealth strike, battle-management and anti-submarine and utility capabilities. In that sense, the types respectively are analogues of the U.S. Navy’s F-35C, E-2D and MH-60R. But the Z-20F, KJ-600 and J-35 are new. Really new. It’s not clear that they’ll be mature enough and available in sufficient numbers with trained crews immediately to equip the Type 003.It’s possible early on that the new flattop will sail with upgraded versions of the aircraft that already embark on the PLAN’s two smaller carriers Liaoning and Shandong—J-15 fighters and Z-18 and Z-9 helicopters. With one big caveat. Those Soviet-style vessels lack catapults. They instead launch their fighters via a bow ramp. Launching via catapult requires special landing gear that’s compatible with the catapult’s bridle. The PLAN’s existing 50 or so J-15s lack the special nose gear. They can’t take off from the Type 003. Anticipating that the J-15 would need to populate the new flattop’s deck for at least a few years, Shenyang has developed a new version of the J-15—the J-15T—with new nose gear.The J-15T first appeared in public late last year. Shenyang provided more details this month. Beside the new nose gear, the J-15T also boasts new wing pylons that can carry newer missiles types, as well as newer sensors possibly including an electronically-scanned-array radar replacing the older, mechanical unit. Moreover, the J-15T reportedly has more composite components than the J-15 does, likely reducing its weight.That’s key. The J-15’s significant weight—19 tons empty—severely limits how much fuel and weaponry the type can carry and still get airborne off Liaoning or Shandong’s ramp. J-15s almost never appeared in photos with more than a couple small air-to-air missiles under their wings.Launching via catapult allows the J-15T to load up, potentially to its maximum weight of 36 tons. Replacing metal components with composite ones further could reduce the empty weight, possibly meaning greater payload for a given max weight.As a variant of a proven type, as opposed to a brand new type, the J-15T should be easier to produce and integrate into the PLAN’s force structure than, say, the J-35 might be. Converting to the variant should be straightforward for current J-15 pilots.Expect once the Type 003 is in the water for J-15Ts to comprise the bulk of her air wing. The upgraded Shenyang fighter could buy time for the PLAN to test, build and train crews for new carrier-borne types.