Chloe Kim went from sixth place to first to win the women's snowboard halfpipe final at Dew Tour on  Sunday, essentially punching her ticket to the Olympics. There’s a narrative in the media that decorated snowboarder Chloe Kim thrives competing when the pressure is cranked up—that the ice water running through her veins can always get her back where she needs to be.That may actually be true...but to hear it from Kim, she would much rather set the tone early and have her competitors chase her than to be sitting off the podium ahead of her final run and have to stomp it to end up in medal position. But that, of course, is exactly what happened at Dew Tour on Sunday morning. Sitting at sixth out of eight in the standings without having landed a run, everything came down to Kim’s last run, which was also the final of the contest. She expertly delivered, going frontside 1080 tailgrab, switch frontside 900, switch backside 540, into a Cab 1080 and ending with a frontside 540. Kim hadn’t been able to land the Cab 1080 at the bottom of the pipe on her earlier runs, so the question as she dropped in for her final run was whether she’d dial it back and just make sure to dial up the switch tricks and amplitude in her earlier runs. Nope. Kim stomped the run she had been trying to, earning a monster score of 96.00 to vault into first place and take the win. At the bottom of the pipe, she was mobbed by her fellow competitors.The first to congratulate her? Queralt Castellet, the Spanish snowboarder who had previously been in first place. The riders are judged on progression, amplitude, variety, execution and trick difficulty, and Kim’s run had everything they could hope to see. “That was so stressful,” Kim said with a laugh after her win. Despite the narrative that she thrives when she’s up against the wall, Kim truly hates when she’s in that situation on the final run. She had been thinking about backing off the Cab 1080, but pushed through and did it, commenting that putting herself in those stressful situations is helpful as she prepares for the Olympics. “I would rather land a run, my first run, ideally, so I could build,” Kim told me after the contest. “I actually had a lot more I had planned; I wanted to whip out a couple new tricks, a little disappointed I couldn’t do that but at the end of the day it’s a competition and you gotta win.”Indeed, Kim says she has three new tricks in her bag that she’s hoping to put down this season, definitely in the Olympics if not before then.Also on deck for Kim in 2022? Her new Roxy collection debuts, and she’ll be able to wear it starting in January. Kim signed with sponsor Roxy in November 2020 and announced an exclusive collection was in the works shortly thereafter. “I’m really excited for everyone to see it,” Kim told me. “I worked really hard on it and worked with a group of amazing and talented creative people, so I think it will be great!With her Dew Tour win, Kim, who was already leading the Americans in the World Snowboarding Points Lists, has essentially locked down her position on the U.S. Olympic snowboarding team. But she has the fourth and final U.S. qualifier coming up at Mammoth Mountain January 6-9. Kim previously won the Laax Open in January followed up by an X Games gold in superpipe later that month. She kept up her winning ways at the U.S. Open in Aspen in March, and then took the halfpipe crown yet again at the U.S. Open at Copper Mountain last week. The U.S. Olympic snowboarding team will be announced on or before January 17.