ANKARA, TURKEY - JULY 12: In this photo illustration, the logo of Cineworld is displayed on a laptop  screen and the logo of Cineplex is displayed on a smart phone screen in Ankara, Turkey on July 12, 2020. (Photo by Metin Aktas/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images)Cineplex announced today that it has been victorious in its lawsuit against Cineworld group after a botched acquisition deal in which Cineworld was set to acquire Cineplex.The ruling - from The Ontario Superior Court Of Justice - indicates that Cineplex won the damages for breach of contract and, as a result, has been awarded CAD$1.24 billion (US$965 million).The initial lawsuit was filed to the court in July 2020 after Cineworld Group pulled out of a deal to acquire Cineplex in June 2020. Cineworld, the second-largest exhibitor in the world and the owner of Regal in the U.S., announced it intended to acquire Cineplex in December 2019 through a CAD$2.18 billion deal (US$1.6 billion) and a contract was signed. The deal would have made Cineworld the number one exhibitor in North America by the number of screens it has. Then in June 2020, Cineworld suffered a case of what Cineplex called “buyers remorse”, as cinemas had been closed for many months, indefinitely, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Cineworld then decided to back away from the deal as it had no visibility on when cinemas would re-open and the corporation was losing millions of dollars due to the closure of its activities. Cineworld listed that it was cancelling the acquisition due to Cineplex breaching the terms of the agreement and that Cineplex had experienced some “material adverse effect”. Namely that its screens had to shut down due to the pandemic.TOPSHOT - This photo taken on March 25, 2020 shows a staff member spraying disinfectant at a cinema  as it prepares to reopen to the public after closing due to the COVID-19 coronavirus, in Shenyang in China's northeastern Liaoning province. - China lifted tough restrictions on the province at the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak on March 25 after a months-long lockdown as the country reported no new domestic cases. (Photo by STR / AFP) / China OUT (Photo by STR/AFP via Getty Images)Cineplex’s lawsuit at the time alleged that Cineworld had decided to cancel the deal due to the unforeseeable effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, contractually neither side could pull out of the deal due to outbreaks of illness, which the pandemic very much fell under. This essentially voided Cineworld’s legal right to terminate the contract. Originally just in Cineplex’s eyes and now in the court's eyes.In the original action, Cineplex sought damages of CAD$2.1 billion (US$1.6 billion). The amount was brought to the court as it was reflective of the full amount to be paid to Cineplex on completion of the deal and also compensation for losses. Cineworld denied the allegations and decided to counter-claim for damages and losses.In a statement in July 2020, Cineworld said that they would be vigorously defending the claim and that Cineplex - if victorious in the lawsuit - would only be able to claim a small amount and not the figure for the transaction completing. “In any event, Cineworld believes that Cineplex’s claim, if successful, would be limited to its costs and expenses incurred in relation to the acquisition and would not be assessed by reference to the consideration that was payable under the acquisition.” The court ruling today indicated that Canadian exhibitor Cineplex won slightly more than half of what it originally claimed for.Cineplex CEO, Ellis Jacob, said in a statement in regards to the lawsuit: “We are pleased that the Court found Cineplex acted properly throughout this difficult period in our history.” “With roots that go back over 100 years, we are proud of the relationships we have maintained through this process and remain steadfastly committed to our guests, shareholders and team across Canada and the United States.”