 Washington, D.C., will restore its masking requirement for most of the capital’s indoor public spaces as the city grapples with a new wave of coronavirus infections and braces for omicron, a new virus variant that researchers believe may be more infectious.Tourists, some in face masks while others are not, visit the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, DC, on  May 14, 2021.The mask mandate will go into effect starting Tuesday morning and last until at least the end of January, at which point the policy will be reevaluated, Mayor Muriel Bowser said during a Monday afternoon briefing. Bowser also announced a new vaccine mandate for city workers All D.C. employees, contractors, interns and grantees will be required to be fully vaccinated against coronavirus and receive a booster dose, and will no longer have a test-out option available.Washington, D.C. will also expand coronavirus testing by opening up new testing sites and pushing back the school district’s return to classes after winter break by two days in order to distribute at-home tests on campuses for students, teachers and staffers, Bowser said. Bowser ended the previous indoor masking mandate less than a month ago, a decision that was criticized by other officials as premature and not backed by infection numbers or other coronavirus metrics.Washington, D.C. follows New York and California, which both announced the return of indoor masking requirements last week.The D.C. health department reported 844 new coronavirus infections on Thursday, the most recent day for which data was available. Just a week before, only 125 daily cases were reported. Coronavirus infections are surging in many parts of the country, prompting a fresh wave of mitigation measures like mask mandates and vaccination requirements. While officials have expressed concern about omicron, a new coronavirus variant that experts believe is more infectious than earlier strains, sampling shows the vast majority of new cases in the U.S. are still made up of the delta variant, Washington, D.C. health officials said Monday.Return Of The Mask: Here’s Where Omicron Is Forcing New PPE Mandates (Forbes)Here Are The U.S. Cities Where You Need A Covid Vaccine To Dine In A Restaurant (Forbes)