Dallas Mavericks forward Reggie Bullock during an NBA basketball game against the Oklahoma City  Thunder, Sunday, Dec. 12, 2021, in Oklahoma City. (AP Photo/Sue Ogrocki)The ongoing Covid-19 outbreak in the NBA is wreaking havoc. Over 70 players have entered the league’s health and safety protocols in December. The explosion in positive tests forced the league to postpone numerous games, with many teams struggling to field the requisite eight players needed to play, and approve new guidelines for testing, among other measures.Now, the breakout number of players testing positive has caught up with the Dallas Mavericks. Forwards Reggie Bullock and Josh Green are in the NBA’s health and safety protocols. They’re the first Dallas players to test positive this season, and it shows that the latest wave of Covid-19 will affect virtually every team. “We talked about it before the Lakers game–with the Lakers having Covid issues–and how concerned we were, being a team that didn’t have any Covid issues up to that point, until after they left,” Mavericks Head Coach Jason Kidd said Sunday. “We spoke too soon, and now we have Covid issues.” The Mavericks played the Lakers in Dallas on December 15. Los Angeles came into that game with two players, Dwight Howard and Talen Horton Tucker, already in Covid-19 protocols. The following day, Avery Bradley and Russell Westbrook joined them.Dallas had been lucky, but before traveling to play the Minnesota Timberwolves, the Mavericks canceled a Saturday morning practice. Later that day, the team announced that Bullock had entered health and safety protocols. Then, Sunday morning, Dallas officially listed Green in protocols. Green was already out for Sunday’s game, previously listed as dealing with an illness.Covid-19 is not just affecting Mavericks players. Assistant coaches Darrell Armstrong and Jared Dudley also tested positive for Covid-19 recently. One traveled with the team to Minnesota and one remained in Dallas, Kidd said. He did not elaborate which.“It’s touched our program, and we just have to continue to move forward,” Kidd said. DALLAS, TEXAS - DECEMBER 15: Russell Westbrook #0 of the Los Angeles Lakers passes the ball against  Josh Green #8 of the Dallas Mavericks in the first half at American Airlines Center on December 15, 2021 in Dallas, Texas. (Photo by Tom Pennington/Getty Images)Because of the rash of new cases throughout the league, the NBA is now requiring teams with at least two players out because of Covid-19 to sign a replacement player. The number of replacement players teams can sign increases by one with each additional positive test. Teams can sign a maximum of four replacements.With two players out, the Mavericks will sign guard Theo Pinson from the NBA G League’s Maine Celtics using a hardship exception, The Athletic’s Shams Charania reports. Pinson has appeared in 68 total NBA games with the Brooklyn Nets and New York Knicks over three seasons. In 12 games with Maine this season, he is averaging 16.4 points, 4.6 rebounds and 4.3 assists. From the floor, he’s shooting 42.5% overall and 40.5% on three-point attempts.    Another measure the league is taking is allowing two-way players, who spend their time split between the NBA and G League, to play an unlimited number of games with their NBA team. The previous limit was 50 games. “I think it’s similar to last year, especially for us,” Tim Hardaway Jr. said about the ongoing outbreak. “That time we played Denver and we had like four or five guys out. I think it’s going to be that stretch–guys that really haven’t played that many minutes are going to have to come in and contribute. We trust and believe in them.”Last season, Covid-19 hit the Mavericks hard. Five players–Jalen Brunson, Dorian Finney-Smith, Maxi Kleber, Dwight Powell and Josh Richardson–all missed significant time after testing positive or contracting the virus. Combined, they missed a total of 41 games. “Hopefully, we don’t have to shut down the league or anything,” Finney-Smith said. “The NBA will figure it out.”As the league implements new safety policies, the Mavericks are taking a “next man up” approach to each new day. With two players already sidelined because of Covid-19 despite following NBA guidelines, it’s about the only thing the team can do to navigate the current crisis. As Kidd puts it, Covid-19 isn’t going anywhere any time soon.“We’ve got to listen to the league and try to do the best that we can,” Kidd said. “It’s not just us. You see games are being canceled. This isn’t going to go away today, tomorrow or the next day. This is going to be here for a while. We just got to figure out how to do the right thing.”