PORTLAND, ME - NOVEMBER 12: Theo Pinson of the Maine Celtics drives with the ball as Jaden Springer  of the Delaware Blue Coats moves in on defense Friday, November 12, 2021. (Shawn Patrick Ouellette/Portland Press Herald via Getty Images)NBA teams are scrambling to replenish their rosters. The current outbreak of positive Covid-19 tests throughout the league is sidelining countless players as the enter league-mandated health and safety protocols. Player absences are forcing the league to cancel games and enact more prudent measures to combat Covid-19.The Dallas Mavericks are not immune to the ongoing crisis. At least two players, Reggie Bullock and Josh Green, entered protocols as well as two assistant coaches as of Sunday evening. The team announced Monday that a third player, Maxi Kleber, is also in health and safety protocols. As such, the organization is bringing in a couple of players to remain competitive. Monday, the Mavericks announced that they’re signing guard Theo Pinson to a 10-day contract using the NBA’s Covid-related hardship allowance. This season, Pinson has been playing for the Maine Celtics, the Boston Celtics’ NBA G League affiliate, where he is averaging 16.4 points, 4.6 rebounds and 4.3 assists in 12 games. Pinson has also appeared in 68 NBA games with both the Brooklyn Nets and New York Knicks over the course of three seasons. He has career averages of 2.9 points, 1.4 rebounds and 1.2 assists.Dallas is also signing Marquese Chriss, according to Yahoo!’s Chris Haynes. The five-year NBA veteran last played for the Golden State Warriors during the 2020-21 season. He signed with the Portland Trail Blazers prior to the 2021-22 season, appearing in four preseason games, before the Blazers waived him. Chriss has career averages of eight points, 4.9 rebounds and 1.1 assists, playing for the Phoenix Suns, Houston Rockets, Cleveland Cavaliers and Warriors.The addition of Chriss is also notable because of his tenuous relationship with Mavericks’ star Luka Doncic. The two players almost came to blows during a game in 2019 after Chriss shoved Doncic. The league fined Chriss $35,000 for the altercation. NBA teams can sign one replacement player for each rostered player in the league’s Covid-19 protocols. The league requires teams to sign one replacement player if they have two players in health and safety protocols. Teams can sign a maximum of four replacement players.  As well as the addition of replacement players, the NBA is waiving previous rules for two-way players. Two-way players, who split time between the NBA and G League, can now spend an unlimited amount of time with their NBA team. The previous limit was 50 games. “I think it’s going to be that stretch–guys that really haven’t played that many minutes are going to have to come in and contribute,” Mavericks guard Tim Hardaway Jr. said Sunday. “We trust and believe in them.”