KANSAS CITY, KANSAS - MAY 02: Kyle Busch, driver of the #18 M&M's Mix Toyota, celebrates after  winning the NASCAR Cup Series Buschy McBusch Race 400 at Kansas Speedway on May 02, 2021 in Kansas City, Kansas. (Photo by James Gilbert/Getty Images)One of the longest-tenured sponsors in NASCAR will be leaving the sport at the end of the 2022 season. Mars Inc. will depart at the end of the upcoming season after first entering the sport 30 years go. Sports Business Journal first reported the news Monday. Mars Inc. has primarily promoted its M&M candies but has also used its sponsorship platform for its other brands such as Double Mint chewing gum, Pedigree dog food, as well as Snickers, and Skittles candy. Their longest-running deal was with the No. 18 Toyota with Joe Gibbs Racing that began in 2008. “One of the great things I love about NASCAR is the opportunity to build meaningful relationships,” team owner Joe Gibbs said in an emailed statement. “Mars has been a tremendous example of that. We have experienced so much together over the past 15 years, including two Cup Series championships, while developing friendships that will extend well beyond next year. I know everyone at Joe Gibbs Racing feels that way and I’m glad we have the 2022 season to celebrate Mars and the contributions they have made to our sport over the past three decades.”“I know everyone at Joe Gibbs Racing feels that way, and I’m glad we have the 2022 season to celebrate Mars and the contributions they have made to our sport over the past three decades.”Driver Kyle Busch has raced the No. 18 since the sponsorship began with Joe Gibbs Racing. Busch has won 55 races and NASCAR Cup Series championships in 2015 and 2019 with Mars sponsorship. Mars has also used its sponsorship platform for its other brands (Photo by Robert Laberge/Getty  Images)“I have been incredibly fortunate to have the opportunity to represent Mars for nearly 15 years now,” Kyle Busch said in a statement released on social media. “During this time, Mars Associates have been like family to myself, Samantha, and Brexton. In particular, my friendship with the Mars Family will be something that will last a lifetime. We have a relationship so much deeper than just having the honor of driving their colorful cars. I’m also proud that we’ve been able to bring them to victory lane 55 times in the Cup Series, including two Cup Series championships. I know our 18 team will work as hard as ever to bring them to victory lane as many times as we can in 2022 and hopefully even another championship we can celebrate together.”Mars Inc. entered NASCAR in 1991 as an associate sponsor. They stepped up to team sponsorship in 1999 with MB2 Motorsports and driver Ernie Irvan then in 2003 they moved to Robert Yates Racing and the No. 38 car with driver Elliot Sadler. M&Ms signed on to be the “official chocolate of NASCAR” in 2006 and settled at Joe Gibbs Racing in 2008.Mars and JGR extended the sponsorship in 2019 to run through 2022. The deal called for 25-30 primary sponsorship on the No. 18 for Kyel Busch and was reportedly valued at $20M annually. Joe Gibbs Racing president Dave Alpern told Sports Business Journal that Mars told the team this past summer, giving them well over a year to find a replacement, and the No. 18 car’s other major sponsor Interstate Batteries recently extended for multiple years.Mars stepped up to team sponsorship in 1999 with MB2 Motorsports and driver Ernie Irvan. Mandatory  Credit: David Taylor /AllsportInterstate Batteries is another long term JGR sponsor. It was one of the first sponsors for the team with its first race with JGR coming in 1992. The team and Interstate recently celebrated a 30-year partnership. As for the reason Mars is ending the sponsorship, Alpern said he believes the company “wants to try some new things — and no matter how big a brand is, they have a finite budget, so when you want to try something new, it has to come from somewhere else.” He added, “I don’t view it as a diminishing return, or the deal wasn’t working; they just want to try some new things.”In an emailed statement from the company, they seem only focused on the immediate future:“Mars has had a storied and successful 30-year partnership with NASCAR, and we have all mutually benefited from our sponsorship of Joe Gibbs Racing,” the statement from Anton Vincent, president, Mars Wrigley North America said. “We look forward to the 2022 season as our final ‘victory lap’ season with NASCAR, Joe Gibbs Racing and Kyle Busch.”