For many IT organizations, “cloud strategy” has largely entailed determining which apps to migrate to clouds or develop natively, along with where, when and how to deploy them. While these decisions are certainly critical, this narrow slice of cloud strategy ignores the equally important issue of how to manage and secure the multi-cloud estate with consistency. For this, organizations need to think about a cross-cloud strategy.gettyMulti-cloud is now the dominant enterprise architecture in digital businesses, and will remain so for the foreseeable future. VMware research found that 73% of our customers already use two or more clouds, and 81% of enterprises expect to be multi-cloud by 2024.1 In some companies, this is the result of deliberate execution of a company-wide cloud strategy; in others, adoption of multiple clouds began at the line of business level or through “shadow IT” projects. Either way, the majority of companies are now multi-cloud, whether intentionally or not. This is not surprising. Using multiple public cloud providers enables enterprises to pick and choose from best-in-breed services for specific workloads, and to avoid single vendor lock-in.But are multi-clouds universally better than mono clouds? Not necessarily. Without a sound cross-cloud strategy in place, multi-cloud can become a problem. As one CIO told us: “Multi-cloud is here to stay, but we’re in the early days and it’s not easy. In fact, it’s hard right now.”Many organizations begin to face challenges as they scale out their multi-cloud estate. The root problem: every cloud exists in a silo, with unique operational, administrative and security tools, processes, taxonomies and APIs. This inconsistency leads to complexity and risk. The effects of using multiple clouds in parallel include more friction between Dev and Ops, more specialized skills requirements, less efficient control of spend, and potentially more security risks—precisely the opposite outcomes the agile cloud was supposed to deliver. The more clouds an organization adds, the more this silo effect is exacerbated. Consider these questions about your IT organization:These questions all roll up to one: how do we manage our multi-cloud estate with consistency, as if it were one cloud? If you struggle to answer this question or the ones above, you may need to broaden your definition of a cloud strategy. This requires a subtle paradigm shift from thinking about a cloud strategy (where “the cloud” is a monolithic thing) or a multi-cloud strategy (where clouds exist as parallel silos) to considering a cross-cloud strategy. Cloud strategies typically cover an enterprise’s first steps on their cloud journeys (initial public cloud adoption, some app migration). We have written about the importance of this cloud strategy and what should go into it, and this guidance still holds. Next came a multi-cloud strategy, representing a “second wave” of steps on the journey, encompassing the adoption of additional public clouds and app modernization initiatives that may never end. This highlighted the importance of linking business strategy to cloud strategy and the critical role of a cloud operating model. A cross-cloud strategy represents the third wave: unifying multiple clouds under one umbrella of functionality spanning application modernization, management, infrastructure, security, and networking. Again, the goal is to eliminate complexity and risk by achieving consistency.Software services can play a pivotal role in enabling a cross-cloud strategy. In fact, to some degree those services can be the foundation of your strategy. The obvious limitation of the toolsets provided by cloud providers is that they generally only work with their own cloud. A cross-cloud strategy that can only leverage the providers’ tools in parallel would thus need to rely heavily on people and processes in the form of extensive staff training, documentation and governance. The gains in efficiency, if any, would be modest.In contrast, cloud-agnostic services can help ensure consistency across clouds with far less involvement or risk. This is why we created VMware Cross-Cloud services, a portfolio of SaaS solutions to build, run, manage and secure apps across clouds. What does removing complexity from a multi-cloud environment look like? Here are a few examples of what’s possible:Cross-Cloud services enables all of this, and much more. Consider the case of electrical transformer manufacturer SGB-SMIT, which uses Google Cloud and Amazon Web Services. Salvatore Cassara, CIO, describes one component of the Cross-Cloud services portfolio—VMware Cloud—as “the glue that holds our multi-cloud strategy together. It allows us to share resources, tools, and data between Amazon, Google, and our own private cloud environments.”Ultimately, multi-cloud environments enable companies to strengthen their competitiveness by delivering transformational apps quickly to their customers and employees. By eliminating the complexity of building, running, managing and securing these apps across clouds, enterprises are empowered to innovate faster. It’s time to move from planning to embrace a multi-cloud environment to achieving operational excellence with the multi-cloud environment you already have.