COPPER MOUNTAIN, COLORADO - DECEMBER 17: Second place finisher Eileen Gu of Team China stands on the  podium after the women's ski slopestyle final on Day 3 of The Dew Tour at Copper Mountain on December 17, 2021 in Copper Mountain, Colorado. (Photo by Ezra Shaw/Getty Images)If everything 18-year-old freeskier Eileen Gu does seems effortless—the San Francisco, California, native is as talented in skiing as she is in modeling and in her academic career, having recently been accepted to Stanford—just know that under all her success is a grind of hard work and mental and physical conditioning. At Dew Tour, Gu—one of the few female freeskiers in the world who competes in both halfpipe and slopestyle—competed in three events: the two aforementioned contests on Friday, as well as the streetstyle jam session Saturday afternoon. (Technically, if Dew Tour had featured a separate big air competition, as the Olympics will, Gu would have had a slate of four events!)She landed on the podium in all three, winning halfpipe, finishing second in slopestyle, and finishing third in streetstyle. In halfpipe, Estonia’s Kelly Sildaru, another medal favorite in Beijing, came in second, and Colorado’s Hanna Faulhaber took third. Then Gu barely had time to eat some French toast before it was time for her slopestyle competition, where she finished second to France’s Tess Ledeux. Norway’s Johanne Killi came in third. “I’ve been working on consistency, on endurance, especially knowing that I compete in three events; I don’t want it to take away any of my energy for the other ones,” Gu said after her slopestyle win. “I’m happy to have learned to push through and I think that speaks volumes about what I’ve learned from last season about managing pressure.”In Gu’s young career, there was virtually no pressure as she flew under the radar—and then, when she burst onto the scene at Dew Tour in January, winning three medals, the pressure reached a fever pitch as she suddenly became the one to beat.Since then, Gu has taken first place in both halfpipe and slopestyle in March’s world championships in Aspen, first place in big air at the Steamboat World Cup earlier this month, and first place at the Copper U.S. Grand Prix last week heading into Dew Tour. “This is actually kind of crazy; this month I have competed in big air, halfpipe World Cup, halfpipe today, and slope today, so four contests in one month, two finals in one day—absolutely insane,” Gu said Friday after her slopestyle runner-up finish. COPPER MOUNTAIN, COLORADO - DECEMBER 17: Eileen Gu of Team China warms up before the start of the  women's ski slopestyle final on Day 3 of The Dew Tour at Copper Mountain on December 17, 2021 in Copper Mountain, Colorado. Sildaru did not compete in the finals. (Photo by Ezra Shaw/Getty Images)Needless to say, for Gu, who competes for her mother’s home country of China in international contests and will represent the nation at the Beijing Olympics, endurance training has been top of mind. “I grew up as a runner so I’ve been working on that to physically build myself up; mentally, I’m really proud of myself to be able to keep that consistency throughout,” Gu said. “I do feel fatigued, but I really love pressure, I genuinely feed off of nervous energy, and so I think it was good because it kept my adrenaline high.”Noting that she was “definitely feeling a little beat-up” after her slopestyle showing, Gu wasn’t sure if she would also compete in Saturday’s streetstyle final, but not only did she get out there, she landed on the podium for a third time with her third-place finish.It’s been a whirlwind season for Gu so far, and it’s far from over. She has the U.S. Grand Prix at Mammoth Mountain, California, in early January, and the Olympics get underway about a month after that. Gu is a gold-medal favorite in both halfpipe and slopestyle, but as one of the few women who will compete in both events, her experience at the Games will be unique. She won’t be competing in two finals in one day, as she did at Dew Tour this weekend, but she’ll still be on her skis almost every day. “My events are spaced out, but I’m pretty much skiing for 20 days straight, competing or training every day,” Gu said.Still, Gu exudes excitement about the upcoming Games, as well the opportunity she has to progress the women’s sport and inspire the next generation. If you want more Eileen leading up to the Beijing Games, she has a new Red Bull TV series out called Everyday Eileen, which documents her journey from graduating high school in San Francisco to bursting onto the international competition scene from shooting modeling campaigns in New York to preparing for the Games.