Jung Hae-in and Blackpink's Jisoo star in 'Snowdrop.'The controversy surrounding the JTBC drama Snowdrop did not dissipate after the first two episodes were aired on Dec. 18 and 19. Concerns about the plot and characters were first expressed in March of 2021 when descriptions of the drama were leaked. The drama starring Jung Hae-in and BlackPink’s Jisoo, tells the story of a North Korean spy and a university student. Jisoo’s character hides the spy when he stumbles into her room, thinking that he is a pro-democracy activist. The controversy concerns the fictional contention that a North Korean spy was potentially involved or even associated with Korea’s pro-democracy movement. Many of those who protested Chun Doo-hwan’s regime in the 1980s were falsely accused of being North Korean spies. Pro-democracy protesters were imprisoned, tortured and killed in an attempt by the government to suppress political dissidents. Chun was a South Korean politician and army general who served as the fifth president of South Korea from 1980 to 1988. His expansion of martial law resulted in the death of at least 200 pro-democracy activists.According to the Korea Times, an online petition was posted on Dec. 19 to ask that the show be cancelled. “Many activists were tortured and died after being falsely accused of being North Korean spies,” said the petition. “I believe that the content of the drama defames the value and reputation of the democratization movement.”The petition currently has more than 200,000 signatures. Some viewers have expressed concerns that since Snowdrop was going to be aired internationally on Disney+, that foreign viewers would be influenced by an inaccurate description of Korean history.At a Dec. 17 press conference, director Jo Hyun-tak said that the story is about individuals and not about politics or ideology.He tried to reassure viewers that although the series was set in 1987, everything in the story was fictional, except for the fact that it was set during the military regime. Information leaked about the plot, he said, should not be perceived as representing the entire series. However, reactions to the first episodes prompted renewed concern by viewers and more people signed the petition. According to the Korea Herald, several advertisers have since requested that their products be removed from the show or the placement minimized.Earlier in 2021, another Korean drama,  Joseon Exorcist, was canceled because viewers complained about historical inaccuracies.