A man look out over Al-Wadi al-Kabir, Oman in February 14, 2018 (Photo: PHILIPPE LOPEZ/AFP via Getty  Images)Fitch Ratings has offered a cautious vote of confidence in Oman’s economy, by improving the outlook on the sovereign’s credit rating from negative to stable. The ratings agency said the revision reflected improvements in some key fiscal metrics, including the government debt-to-GDP ratio and the size of the budget deficit.The authorities in Muscat are likely to welcome the change, which comes after four ratings downgrades by Fitch in the past four years. It also means all three main ratings agencies have now taken similar action in recent months, with Moody’s and S&P Global Ratings revising their outlooks on Oman upwards in October.Explaining its latest move, Fitch said it estimated that the country’s deficit fell sharply to 3.4% of GDP in 2021, compared to 16.1% of GDP in 2020. More than half of that was due to higher oil and gas prices, with hydrocarbons revenues up by around a third. However, non-oil revenue has also been increasingly strongly, rising 40% year-on-year in the first ten months of this year, helped by the introduction of a value-added tax (VAT) in April. The government has also made progress with its medium-term fiscal plan, which aims to balance the budget and lower debt to 61% of GDP by 2025, from a high of 71% in 2020.Government spending has fallen 6% year-on-year in 2021, helped by shifting the majority of oil and gas spending off the government’s balance sheet to the state-owned Energy Development Oman (EDO). Reforms of subsidies on water and electricity have also been cautiously introduced, as part of a longer-term plan to cut subsidies by around two-thirds by 2025.Fitch expects the deficit to fall further to 1.6% of GDP in 2022, assuming an average oil price of $70 a barrel next year (the government’s budget is based on $50 a barrel) as well as lower oil and gas capital spending and a further small decline in the cost of subsidies.Things may start to head in the opposite direction in 2023. Fitch predicted the budget deficit will rise to 2.2% of GDP that year, based on oil prices falling to around $60 a barrel. Thereafter, however, Fitch thinks the government’s breakeven oil price (the price at which it can balance its budget) will be around $60 a barrel in 2024-25, even if the medium-term fiscal plan is not fully implemented. “This would represent an important structural improvement in the budget, even though Oman would nonetheless remain heavily dependent on hydrocarbon revenue and vulnerable to commodity-price shocks,” it said.The government still faces myriad challenges, including high debt repayments in the near-term. In 2021, the government had to repay $4.6 billion of foreign debt. That will rise to $6.1 billion in 2022, including a $3.6 billion loan from China. State-owned enterprises are also due to repay an average of $2.8 billion a year in external debt in 2022-24. Fitch also noted that “potential social pressure resulting from the low employment rate of young Omanis remains a risk to public finances and political stability” although it said the succession of Sultan Haitham bin Tariq al-Said in 2020 “has added momentum to Oman's reform agenda”.