Dan Ammann and Mary Barra in happier times at General Motors, long before she fired himOne of the key debates over the future of self-driving cars is how much of it will be robotaxis — Uber 
  
  UBER 
 -style services while sell rides rather than cars, and how much will be sales of personal self-driving cars to private owners. This week this battle was prominent in the firing of Cruise CEO Dan Ammann by Mary Barra, CEO of GM over conflicts on this question. Amman saw a “robotaxi first” strategy with an IPO to capitalize on strong market interest in that business. Barra wanted Cruise to put more focus on technologies that could be used in GM’s traditional product lines.Earlier I wrote analysis of whether Robotaxis are the right business model. Dan Amman clearly believed that, while GM is less sure. Each player has come to a different place on the decision spectrum. Waymo has made a pure focus on robotaxi, then added trucking and some delivery. Zoox has always been only about robotaxis. Tesla 
  
  TSLA 
  has said it wants to do both robotaxi and personal car sales, but has started with the latter, even pre-selling a “Full self driving” package years before it can actually deliver, if it ever can with current hardware. I was one of those who put Waymo on that path, and it’s also the advice I gave to Cruise founder and now CEO-again Kyle Vogt before he started Cruise.Car companies — even radical new ones like Tesla — know about selling cars to customers, and it is their natural first lens. Internet companies sell services and rarely hardware, and had their own obvious path. That’s particularly true with Uber and Lyft who are already in the ride business, though they had to sell off their robotaxi units for various reasons.One the one hand, Robotaxi is easier than selling a consumer self-driving car. First of all, you don’t sell the car, and so it’s under your control at all times. It comes home every night and you can update it, modify it, recalibrate it and fix all the early problems any new product will have. In the first few years a product exist, it’s great if you don’t have to let it out of your hands. Sell it to the customer and it’s gone. If you act like Tesla, you can monitor it and update its software but you’re much more divorced from it. Traditional car companies used to have almost nothing to do with the customer after the dealership bought the car. It’s taking them some time to be more like Tesla. That’s a problem when you are releasing a complex and entirely novel product. Just as software companies have mostly switched from selling you software on a CD to Software-as-a-service, the robotaxi model is so much easier.A robotaxi can be made that just services a special subset of the streets in just one town and it’s still a real business. No car company will make a car that only works in one town or even just a few towns. They are used to selling products which work everywhere, both because private customers want it, and volume demands you be able to sell it as many places as you can.A robotaxi can be much more expensive to build than a private car. Add $10,000 to the cost of building your robotaxi and you can make it up with a modest increase in per-mile fees. $5,000 LIDAR? Not a problem. Add $10,000 to a consumer car and it’s $25,000 more on the MSRP and it’s a whole other class of car, and only in the luxury segment if it wasn’t there to start. That’s one reason Tesla is so motivated to make it all work with just cameras. In fact, when they started, there were no LIDARS they could have dreamed of putting on the car. (Today there are cheaper LIDARs but they are much more limited than the robotaxi models and used only for driver assist.)Cruise Origin vehicle conceptOf course, the fact that the robotaxi only works in a few towns is a downside too. Building a robotaxi fleet is hugely capital intensive and uses a lot of human effort too. It’s harder to grow it exponentially the way that Tesla sales have grown. You have to prep each city, build and maintain maps and much more. (Another reason Tesla is so keen to do without the maps.) The cost of this can be managed, but you can’t just snap your fingers and handle all of North America or the world.Ammans dispute with Barra involved her desire to have Cruise apply its efforts also to better ADAS and tools over the whole GM fleet. One can understand why she wants that. She has this expensive asset with lots of nice tools and they could help that fleet — but only by taking its eyes off the prize. Most car companies have made a big shift away from self-driving altogether to the nearer term goal of ADAS. They would not admit this but they hated the sudden rise of the robocar, and the need to move at crazy speed to stop people calling Google 
  
  GOOG 
  the future of the car. They never wanted their lives overturned at tech company speed. They know this will happen, but they want it to happen at a slower pace they can adapt to. GM was a holdout through its Cruise division, though Ford also remains that way with Argo AI and Hyundai with Motional.Now GM will slow things down. It was the speed, however, that drove the big valuations that made Amman want to take Cruise public. Investors are excited about turning the auto industry upside-down, and they want returns sooner rather than later. That’s why they have driven the valuations of some companies through the roof. It’s a part of why Tesla is more valuable than all the others put together.I was actually impressed and surprised at Cruise’s devotion to the custom-designed Origin and the purer business plan. It was unusual for a car company subsidiary. It made me list GM as a leader. This is not to say it’s dead — there is going to be a market for both robotaxis and other technologies for some years go come, even if, absent the dreams of Elon Musk, it takes longer to make a car you can sell to consumers.There is the outside chance, as well, that Elon’s dreams come true. He’s made a risky bet, that a breakthrough will come in computer vision that lets him turn a Tesla into a robotaxi with cheap hardware. If that breakthrough comes he’ll be the even richer richest person and show up on more covers than Time magazine. If not, he’ll still have a great position in innovative electric cars. He has a fantastic position if his bet pays off as well. As an automaker, Tesla plans to lease Teslas to customers, then buy them back at the end of 3 years and convert them to robotaxis. That’s easy with the sleek interior of the Model 3 and Y — just pull out the wheel and pedals and put a wooden plate in the hole. Then he gets to supply his robotaxi fleet with 3 year old cars where customers ate almost half the depreciation cost. A 3 year old off-lease car with the wheel removed will make a very decent robotaxi. At this lower cost, he can undercut others on price, or just make more profits — if he gets his breakthrough.