 Boston became the latest city to mandate that customers show proof of coronavirus vaccination before dining indoors at a restaurant, as new infections spike across the country. Bessie King, behind a plastic shield, takes care of a customer at her restaurant Villa Mexico Cafe  in the financial district of Boston on June 6, 2020.In Boston, patrons will have to show they’ve been vaccinated in order to enter indoor spaces like restaurants, bars, movie theaters, museums and sports stadiums starting Jan. 15 in what will be a phased vaccine mandate, Boston Mayor Michelle Wu announced Monday.Philadalphia Health Commissioner Cheryl Bettigole said last week vaccine cards will be required to enter any Philadelphia establishment where food is served indoors — including dine-in movie theaters, sporting venues, bowling alleys, bars and casinos — starting Jan. 3.New York was the first city to announce a vaccine mandate in August for patrons dining indoors, seeing movies in theaters and even going to gyms in a play to encourage unvaccinated New Yorkers to get their shots, Mayor Bill De Blasio said.It was soon followed by San Francisco, where since August proof of vaccination has been required to enter indoor restaurants, bars, theaters, clubs and gyms.Shortly after, New Orleans announced the city would adopt a similar policy of requiring proof of vaccination or a negative coronavirus test to enter an indoor bar or restaurant and in November, city officials said the mandate would continue until at least Mardi Gras the following year, or March 2022.While not mandated by officials, bars and restaurants in cities across the country have implemented their own vaccine policies. Establishments requiring customers to show proof of vaccination have been reported in cities including Los Angeles, Seattle, Chicago, Boston and Atlanta.The U.S. surpassed 50 million coronavirus cases on Tuesday as cases continue to rise across the country. Hospitalizations and deaths also began climbing in late October, though they are still far below rates recorded at the peak of the U.S. outbreak in January. Officials have expressed concern over the spread of the newly-discovered omicron variant, which experts believe may be more infectious and has been identified in at least 30 states.U.S. Hits 50 Million Covid Infections — Here’s Where Cases Are Surging (Forbes)No Vax, No Service: Here’s Where Bars And Restaurants Across U.S. Are Requiring Proof Of Vaccination (Forbes)