Making sure the interior ambiance is suitable for passengers, including and especially when inside a  self-driving car.You invite someone over to your home.If you are the type of host that cares about providing a cozy experience, you will attempt to fine-tune your household environment toward the specific interests and preferences of your guest. Turns out that the guest is known to be somewhat sensitive to bright light and loud noises. So, you draw closed many of the curtains, keep the interior lights dimmed, and politely ask other occupants to refrain from earsplitting vocal outbursts.This is part of an effort to accommodate the needs of your guest. Of course, you don’t necessarily have to take those actions. It could be that you merely let your guest contend with whatever the normal conditions within your home are. Tough luck to them about any of their ambient desires as a visitor. Your place is your place, and the onus is upon any guest to self-adjust to the surroundings within your domicile.I would optimistically suggest that few hosts tend to take that ostensibly harsh uncaring perspective and will instead do what they reasonably can to adjust the ambiance as best feasible. Might as well seek to make the environs palatable to a guest, thus likely increasing their satisfaction and comfort, along with indubitably making things better for yourself too (a happy guest would presumably spur being a happy host).Another place where tuning the ambiance comes to play is inside a car. You are giving a lift to a friend. The ride will take about two hours. This is a long enough time period that it would seem worthwhile to try and do something for the comfort of your pal. Maybe you like rap music and your friend prefers classical music. As such, you prepare a slate of enthralling songs that includes both styles. Your friend relishes those indoor air fresheners and especially the sweet smell of forest pines. Though you normally don’t use air fresheners in your vehicle, you nonetheless purchase one that has a wooded scent and install it into your car.Pat yourself on the back for being a conscientious host.All of this talk about setting the ambiance or surroundings is due to the rising aspects of something referred to as Ambient Intelligence (AmI). The gist is that rather than you having to adjust the environment to the needs of a fellow human, there is state-of-the-art technology that will automatically do so. When someone walks into a house, the high-tech systems inside the structure will quietly and unobtrusively adjust the interior environment for the preferences of that person. This could make use of technology such as Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and likely leverage the latest in Artificial Intelligence (AI).The IoT devices serve as sensors that can detect the conditions within the structure. That data can be fed into an AI-based controller that is able to electronically set and reset the devices of the home that pertain to the ambiance. For example, the Air Conditioning (A/C) might be electronically interconnected, and the AI will turn on or off the A/C as needed, per the temperate readings flowing in from the numerous IoT sensors throughout the house.Ambient Intelligence is also coming to our cars.Right now, you usually switch on the A/C when you need a flow of fresh cool air in your vehicle. Many cars also have a temperature gauge that can detect when the interior gets overly hot and will directly engage the A/C to cool down the compartment. Few cars though have a more sophisticated range of detection and action-taking tech.The kind of space-age arrangement being envisioned would include the aspect that the tech would attempt to ascertain how warm the passengers are becoming and to what degree the A/C should be engaged. Have you ever had today’s A/C suddenly bring forth a jet force blast of cold air? That is a crude way to try and cool off the interior and at times startles and rankles the riders.If the Ambient Intelligence system had thermal detectors, it could read the temperatures of the people inside the car. When someone in the backseat seems to be getting especially overheated, the A/C would utilize just the jets in the backset and orient those directly toward that specific person. Rather than bluntly trying to get the entire car cooler, the idea is that the A/C usage is being tailored or customized to individual needs.You might say that Ambience Intelligence entails using high-tech to be a good host.This can be trickier than it might seem at first glance.Just because that person in the backseat is showing a slightly heightened temperature does not necessarily mean that they welcome getting a jet of cool air upon them. Perhaps the person prefers being a bit warm. Or the person would instead like to open their window and not make use of the A/C at all.The AI aspects of Ambient Intelligence are intended to make the ambient capabilities “smart” in that the use of ambient-related technology befits the person and the circumstances. In this scenario of the person in the backseat, the tech could open a car window for them, but this might not make sense if the outside temperature is a roasting hot wind. The AI would be attempting to ascertain for the given situation what options exist and which ones to prudently employ.Another tricky element involves trying to set the ambiance when you have two or more people that are being accommodated. In the backseat, assume that we have two passengers. The one seated on the right likes the interior to be warm. The person seated on the left has a preference for cooler temps. Yikes, this is a bit of a dilemma. I’m sure you’ve had similar conundrums as a driver and having to cope with the disparate preferences of your fellow riders. Do you turn on the A/C or not? If one person complains that the A/C should not be operating, any action you take to rectify the ambiance could end up stoking the temperature to a degree that the other one starts to complain.Trying to satisfy all passengers, all of the time can be quite a daunting dilemma. This takes a bit of finesse. A crucial element is ascertaining the preferences of each passenger. We’ll come back to that topic in a moment.Speaking of cars, the future of cars consists of self-driving cars. Self-driving cars are driven by an AI driving system. There is no need for and indeed no provision for a human to drive the vehicle. For my extensive coverage of autonomous vehicles and self-driving cars, see the link here.People inside a self-driving car will entirely be passengers and there won’t be a human driver at the wheel. In a conventional car, we expect the human driver to try and adjust and establish the interior ambiance for the benefit of their riders. Well, there won’t be that human driver anymore, and as such, the matter of setting the ambiance becomes open-ended.A passenger can set the ambiance for themselves. A passenger can set the ambiance for the vehicle and try to accommodate the needs and preferences of their fellow passengers. In short, a human can still control the internal environment and make whatever settings might seem preferable.It sure would be nice though if the AI system could do this chore since it is now considered the driver of the vehicle. In addition to performing the driving task, it might as well also take on the job of trying to create an interior ambiance that is suitable for those inside the self-driving car.This brings up an important question: Will AI-based true self-driving cars leverage the use of Ambient Intelligence capabilities to try and instill an interior environment for the comfort of the passengers?Before jumping into the details, I’d like to clarify what is meant when referring to true self-driving cars.Understanding The Levels Of Self-Driving CarsAs a clarification, true self-driving cars are ones that the AI drives the car entirely on its own and there isn’t any human assistance during the driving task. These driverless vehicles are considered Level 4 and Level 5 (see my explanation at this link here), while a car that requires a human driver to co-share the driving effort is usually considered at Level 2 or Level 3. The cars that co-share the driving task are described as being semi-autonomous, and typically contain a variety of automated add-on’s that are referred to as ADAS (Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems).There is not yet a true self-driving car at Level 5, which we don’t yet even know if this will be possible to achieve, and nor how long it will take to get there. Meanwhile, the Level 4 efforts are gradually trying to get some traction by undergoing very narrow and selective public roadway trials, though there is controversy over whether this testing should be allowed per se (we are all life-or-death guinea pigs in an experiment taking place on our highways and byways, some contend, see my coverage at this link here).Since semi-autonomous cars require a human driver, the adoption of those types of cars won’t be markedly different than driving conventional vehicles, so there’s not much new per se to cover about them on this topic (though, as you’ll see in a moment, the points next made are generally applicable).For semi-autonomous cars, it is important that the public needs to be forewarned about a disturbing aspect that’s been arising lately, namely that despite those human drivers that keep posting videos of themselves falling asleep at the wheel of a Level 2 or Level 3 car, we all need to avoid being misled into believing that the driver can take away their attention from the driving task while driving a semi-autonomous car. You are the responsible party for the driving actions of the vehicle, regardless of how much automation might be tossed into a Level 2 or Level 3.Self-Driving Cars And Ambient IntelligenceFor Level 4 and Level 5 true self-driving vehicles, there won’t be a human driver involved in the driving task.All occupants will be passengers.The AI is doing the driving.One aspect to immediately discuss entails the fact that the AI involved in today’s AI driving systems is not sentient. In other words, the AI is altogether a collective of computer-based programming and algorithms, and most assuredly not able to reason in the same manner that humans can (see my analysis at this link here). Why this added emphasis about the AI not being sentient?Because I want to underscore that when discussing the role of the AI driving system, I am not ascribing human qualities to the AI. Please be aware that there is an ongoing and dangerous tendency these days to anthropomorphize AI. In essence, people are assigning human-like sentience to today’s AI, despite the undeniable and inarguable fact that no such AI exists as yet.With that clarification, you can envision that the AI driving system won’t natively somehow “know” about the facets of driving. Driving and all that it entails will need to be programmed as part of the hardware and software of the self-driving car.Let’s dive into the myriad of aspects that come to play on this topic.First, automakers and self-driving tech makers are not especially focused on the interior ambiance at this time. The difficulties of getting self-driving cars to proceed safely from point A to point B are a higher priority, deservedly so. The preponderance of development efforts is devoted to the AI driving system as a driver, and not toward the AI driving system as an ambiance infusing supervisor. Second, a question arises whether the AI driving system ought to be undertaking the ambiance chore. Some would stridently assert that the AI driving system should be exclusively dealing with the driving task. No need to divert attention toward the ambiance factors. Any such distraction might be argued as unnecessarily using computer processing cycles that ultimately could be used in the desire for maximum roadway safety considerations.This brings up an allied point that the Ambient Intelligence system could readily be a separate component from the AI driving system. They do not need to be melded together. That being said, it would be useful for the two to electronically communicate with each other.Why so?Consider that one aspect of riding inside a car and the ambiance thereof can include the driving aspects of the vehicle. You might have had passengers in your car that said they get overly nervous when a car takes fast or tight turns. These same passengers might also detest those rapid-fire starts of going from zero to sixty miles per hour that cause them to lose their stomachs or get dizzy.The Ambient Intelligence system could collaborate with the AI driving system to achieve a totality of ambiance that covers the interior environment and also the nature of how the car is being driven. You can add to this the path of the self-driving car too. For example, maybe the self-driving car could avoid roads that have potholes and are rocky, which a passenger might wish to avoid due to getting jostled while riding in the vehicle. Thus, when the AI driving system is making use of the GPS and the various maps for navigation, this qualm or desire by the rider ought to be taken into account.There is a slew of ambiance factors that can be adjusted by a car-based Ambient Intelligence system.We’ve already covered some of the temperature aspects. There is the use of an air conditioning system. There is the use of an in-car heater. The seats themselves might also be wired for heating. The windows might be opened to either cool off the interior or perhaps heat the interior. And so on.Knowing what temperature to establish can be difficult to discern. As earlier mentioned, thermal sensors might be used to detect the temperatures of the passengers. Another means of trying to figure out the temperatures of the riders could be via using facial recognition. There will be inward-facing cameras in self-driving cars, and those cameras could be used to try and detect if someone is sweating, or otherwise showcasing mannerisms and effects of either being too hot or being too cold.Lighting inside a self-driving car will be adjustable. There are interior lights that can be switched on or off, along with being dimmed or brightened on a spectrum of illumination. Some expect that self-driving cars will have some form of window shades that can be automatically rolled up or down, allowing for privacy and darkness within the vehicle.The rationale for those curtaining elements would be that people might opt to take naps or sleep while inside a self-driving car. You no longer need to worry about driving. While commuting to work in the morning, you might want a few additional winks of sleep before arriving at the office. On the way home at night, the self-driving car will deal with the arduous traffic and you meanwhile might be getting a quick nap before arriving at your busy household.Seats inside a self-driving car are anticipated to be highly adjustable. Currently, there must be a driver’s seat at a fixed position in a car. There will no longer be a driver’s seat, nor the conventional driving controls. This handily opens up space within a self-driving car and allows for rather interesting new ways of seating passengers.One commonly designed approach entails the use of swivel seats. The passengers will be able to swivel in whichever direction they prefer. At times, you might be facing forward and opt to watch the road ahead. If there are other passengers on board, you might want to face them and have an engaging dialogue, or maybe play cards or chess together.The Ambient Intelligence component might glean over time your preferences for which way the swivel seats should be oriented. Those swivel seats are likely to also be reclinable, allowing you to take a snooze. This again could be automatically adjusted for you, rather than you having to do so.Remember that earlier there was the scenario of a passenger that preferred certain kinds of odors or scents? The Ambient Intelligence system might be armed with a wide array of scents that can be activated. Those would be used in accordance with the preferences of the riders.This brings us to the vexing topic of how to contend with multiple passengers.Let’s back up for a moment and start with how to cope with just one passenger, and then we’ll widen the view toward handling multiple riders.When you are driving a car, how do you know what your passenger prefers?The most obvious answer is that you ask the person. For AI systems, there are ongoing advances in Natural Language Processing (NLP), such as the likes of Alexa and Siri. By using that kind of NLP capability, the self-driving car can ask the rider what their preferences are. This certainly simplifies matters greatly.Ask, and you shall receive, as they say.The AI system could store the results of a person’s preferences and then use those preferences whenever the person gets into the self-driving car. Furthermore, via the use of OTA (Over-The-Air) electronic communications, the AI could store the preferences into the cloud of the fleet operator. The beauty of this is that any other self-driving cars connected to that cloud could potentially look for that person’s preferences and then immediately be able to use those preferences.To clarify, right now if you use a conventional car and set the car settings to your preferences, it is only that particular car that has your settings. When getting into someone else’s car, this other car has no ready means of being aware of what your prior settings in that other car. In the case of self-driving cars, they will be routinely using an OTA capability to get updates for the AI onboard software, along with using the OTA to upload data collected by the vehicle.This means that when you “teach” or tell one self-driving car what your preferences consist of, this can be shared across an entire fleet of self-driving cars. Those other self-driving cars can instantly recognize what your preferences are, doing so without asking you again about them. Do not though falsely assume you will be stuck with whatever preferences you might have originally stated. The capability ought to be written astutely that whenever your preferences change, those would be likewise further uploaded via the OTA.This takes us to the multiple passengers and the ambiance quandary. What to do about conflicting ambiance preferences by passengers within the same self-driving car on a collective driving journey?Using the NLP, the AI system could ask them to resolve their differences amongst themselves, and then instruct the Ambient Intelligence on what they’d like to have done. Imagine those arm-wrestling matches while the riders are seated in their swivel seats. There could be algorithms that try to figure out mathematically what might be best for all passengers and seemingly calculate a presumed compromise across the disparate preferences. The tough thing here is that you can end up with no one particularly satisfied and everyone altogether dissatisfied.Well, that kind of is the human condition, at times, one might say.This is an open problem and one that will increasingly be encountered when Ambient Intelligence systems are used in rather tightly enclosed spaces such as inside a self-driving car.ConclusionA critic or skeptic might exhort that this is a bunch of phooey and that they do not want any darned AI system or whatever kind of system deciding their ambiance preferences while inside a self-driving car. This smacks of over-engineering and a veritable much ado about nothing, they would exclaim.Maybe yes, maybe no.Once self-driving cars become prevalent, how will you as a prospective passenger decide which self-driving cars to utilize? Assume that by-and-large self-driving cars will be available via ridesharing or ride-hailing network. In addition, assume that the pricing among the different fleets will be about the same. In that case, passengers will have no particular preference of selecting one fleet over another when they request a lift.That’s not good news for those fleet operators. They want you to pick their specific fleet. This is all going to be a money-making enterprise, and each fleet operator will be trying to lure passengers to use their fleet more so than someone else’s fleet.One answer to this standout desire would be to have a fleet of self-driving cars that are really good at this ambiance matter. When advertising a fleet, the operator could tout that they have the best available Ambient Intelligence systems. Your every whim of interior ambiance will be accommodated by their facility. That might be quite an attractor for some.Meanwhile, those passengers that don’t like the AI doing these interior ambiance adjustments will presumably be able to merely switch off the feature. If you don’t like the AI trying to play a game of figuring out your preferences, you don’t need to play the game. Indeed, some will likely find it eerie to consider that your in-car ambiance preferences are being stored in a cloud someplace and readily retrievable. That brings us to a thorny question: Is this attempt at tailoring ambiance a privacy intrusion?That is an unresolved issue that is bound to arise once the Ambient Intelligence systems are incorporated into self-driving cars. For now, no one is thinking about that tough question. The odds are that you’ll need to do things for yourself for the time being, such as setting the A/C, opening the windows, etc.  In the future, some will prefer being treated like royalty and have the AI take care of those tasks, thus riding along without a care in the world and amidst an idyllic environment that turns the riding journey into a dreamy experience.Those are dreams that could someday come true.