LAKE BUENA VISTA, FLORIDA - SEPTEMBER 06: LeBron James #23 of the Los Angeles Lakers is defended by  Danuel House Jr. #4 of the Houston Rockets during the second quarter against the Houston Rockets in Game Two of the Western Conference Second Round during the 2020 NBA Playoffs at AdventHealth Arena at the ESPN Wide World Of Sports Complex on September 06, 2020 in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. NOTE TO USER: User expressly acknowledges and agrees that, by downloading and or using this photograph, User is consenting to the terms and conditions of the Getty Images License Agreement. (Photo by Douglas P. DeFelice/Getty Images)On Friday night, the news broke that the Houston Rockets were waiving forward Danuel House. House, 28, was in the third year of a three-year, $11.15 million contract which was paying him a very team friendly $3.89 million this season. After a contract dispute during his first season with the team, 2018-2019, the team used part of its mid-level exception in 2019 to sign House to his current deal. He is set to become an unrestricted free agent this summer. The move signals that there was just no market for House whose production sharply decreased this season. On the year, in 14.5 minutes per game, House averaged 4.8 points, 2.7 rebounds, and 1.2 assists, shooting 33.8% from the floor and 29.4% on 3s. In his best season with the team, his first year, he shot 46.8% from the floor and 41.6% on 4.6 three-point attempts per game, averaging 9.4 points and 3.6 rebounds in 25.1 minutes per game. Per NBA.com, with House on the floor this year, the Rockets had an offensive rating of 103.1 and a defensive rating of 107.0; overall, the team has had an offensive rating of 104.9 and a defensive rating of 111.6. Even setting aside House’s poor production, the team clearly wanted to prioritize playing time for younger options at the wing position such as Armoni Brooks, Garrison Mathews, and Kenyon Martin Jr. House was the odd man out and his lack of production this year did not help matters.Per the league’s collective bargaining agreement, if a team makes a successful waiver claim, it acquires the player and his existing contract, and pays the remainder of his salary, with the waiving team relieved of all responsibility for the player. This rarely actually happens. It is far more common for teams to wait for the player to clear waivers. After a player clears waivers, he becomes a free agent and is free to sign with the team of his choice. The player’s roster spot is freed up as soon as the team places the player on waivers and the team can sign a new player or acquire one via trade immediately, not needing to wait for the player to be claimed or to clear waivers.If a player is waived between September 1 and June 30, then the current season’s salary is paid per the normal payment schedule. The salary amount continues to be included in team salary, though it is subject to reduction through the right of set-off if the player signs with any professional team. House should get a look elsewhere given his skillset and body of work. In theory, his abilities would be desirable in a bench role for any contender - he can spread the floor and guard multiple positions. The Brooklyn Nets—given the James Harden connection and that team’s need for active bodies—would seem to make sense as an option.