Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner (D) announced Friday afternoon that he had tested positive for Covid-19, amid a surge of new cases in Texas and across the United States.Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner (D) speaks during a news conference on Nov. 6, 2021 in Houston. (AP  Photo/Michael Wyke)Turner said in a statement he is experiencing mild symptoms and plans to self-isolate at home.The mayor said all of his events scheduled for Friday and the weekend had already been canceled before the positive test result came back Friday afternoon.Turner did not indicate whether the omicron strain of coronavirus is linked to his infection."I was not feeling well overnight and thought I was suffering from allergies or a sinus infection, so I decided to get tested before starting my daily schedule," Turner said in a statement.Only the mayor of one larger U.S. city—Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles–has tested positive for Covid-19 during the pandemic. Houston is the fourth-largest city in the U.S. behind New York City, Los Angeles and Chicago.The daily average for new Covid cases in Texas has more than doubled over the past few weeks, averaging more than 5,000 a day in the last week after averaging around 2,000 per day in late November, according to Johns Hopkins University. It's a similar story across the nation. The average number of new Covid cases per day in the U.S. was under 72,000 on November 24 but has spiked rapidly and is now approaching 150,000 a day, which is the highest level of confirmed transmission since September, according to Johns Hopkins. Health experts are warning the rapid spike in the U.S. shows no signs of stopping in the near term, as the highly infectious omicron variant of coronavirus threatens to take over as the dominant strain in the country. Officials are urging unvaccinated Americans to get their vaccine shots and pushing those who are already fully vaccinated to get a booster dose.The NFL schedule this week has been significantly disrupted by growing Covid outbreaks across the league. Three games have been rescheduled so far after more than 100 players tested positive recently, marking the first postponements of the 2021 season.Omicron Now Accounts For 3% Of U.S. Covid Cases — 7 Times Higher Than Week Ago (Forbes)NFL Reportedly Planning Its First Covid Postponements Of 2021 Season (Forbes)Full coverage and live updates on the Coronavirus