The Bruery have been the leaders in direct-to-consumer for the craft beer industryWith The Bruery, membership has its privileges. That is because since their earliest days, The Bruery has offered an industry leading direct-to-consumer subscription program called Societies that offers beer lovers exclusive access to some of the most innovative beers in the industry. I sat down with The Bruery’s CEO Barry Holmes to talk about their Societies, why they proved so valuable in the early days of Covid-19, and what led the company to launch a new brand called Offshoot.Dave Knox: What is the story behind The Bruery?Barry Holmes: The Bruery was launched in 2008 mostly around barrel-aged and Belgian inspired beers. While we are not one of your “OG” craft breweries we’ve been around a little while. It started with just The Bruery and then four years ago we launched Offshoot Beer Company, which is focused on mostly hop forward beers and IPAs and is a more playful brand. After 13 years in the market we’ve thankfully built a great reputation among the “beer geek” crowd around the worldIn the craft beer space, you get a lot of regionality. Most of the big brands have a heavy tilt toward their region. While we have a lot of demand from California, we get a disproportionate share of business in other parts of the country and the world. We have members all over the country who will drive to CA or DC to pick up their beer, or have us ship directly to them. For the brands we distribute to retail, we have distribution agreements in 28 statesKnox: You mentioned the word “member.” Who are the members of The Bruery?Holmes: DTC and membership models have not been a big focus for craft beer until the pandemic. Most of that is driven by the three tier system and DTC shipping laws. The Bruery was pioneering in this respect since we’ve had some form of membership in our Societies program for over ten years. Our most popular membership is the Reserve Society, an annual membership where you get a curated selection of exclusive beers and access to other beers throughout the year in addition to events and a discount on-line or in our tasting rooms and Washington, D.C. store. However, the glue to any membership is the community that’s created and ours is no different. Our members connect in person and on-line around our beers which gives it a personal touch.Knox: The Bruery launched Offshoot nearly a decade after the business started. What led you to launch Offshoot under a separate brand name?Holmes: The founder, Patrick Rue had been asked for years, when are you going to make an IPA? And because he was doing many more esoteric beers and Belgian inspired beers, he had said off the cuff, "I'm never going to make an IPA." That got repeated a couple times and when I joined the business, I thought, “well, surely no one's going to remember that”. Come to find out everyone remembered it and it pointed us to the decision to create another brand.We probably could have done a line extension of IPAs under The Bruery, but in hindsight this was the best move we could have made. Offshoot has a much different personality which fits much better for these types of beers. Our most popular Offshoot beer is Relax, a hazy IPA which has been the fastest selling hazy IPA per point of distribution since we launched. We only have 4% ACV nationally, so we believe there’s a lot of room to grow and the Offshoot brand is a big reason why.Knox: If you look over the last two years of Covid-19, it's been a roller coaster for the beer industry. How has the business evolved to meet the changing consumer behaviors? Holmes: I don't know if it's a roller coaster or water boarding, somewhere in between probably. The response to Covid-19 being so varied throughout the world has meant a lot of changes. Our DTC business was positively impacted but our tasting rooms and the on-premise retail channel took a big hit especially in California. For example, in Florida we saw growth in the on-premise channel as well as off-premise . We didn't really see a hiccup there at all. As an industry in 2020, the state of Florida lost 5% of on-premise sales whereas California was down -65% yet the transmission rates were about the same. The different approaches to Covid-19 had dramatically different impact on our business which caused a lot of frustration but it was something we had to deal with and will likely continue to deal with in the future.The first big pivot was to develop a delivery service in our local area. We were able to leverage our existing online business to get beer to our members and customers in the local area and recapture much of what was lost from closing our tasting rooms. The biggest advantage of that move was it allowed us to hold on to all of our employees. At the time, it felt like the right thing to do and it worked, but little did we know we would be facing a tight labor market in 2021. We have a much stronger and loyal team now as a result.Knox: With your subscription model, The Bruery's been leading the charge in omnichannel. How has direct to consumer set you apart?Holmes: Direct to consumer and membership are accelerating macro trends in every category. While on-line gets all the attention, people’s lives are mirrored by a brand’s omni channel approach. We see a direct link between people who buy on-line then visit us in person or the other way around. This extends to our distribution footprint too. When our brands are present on retail shelves and on tap we get more on-line sales from those geographies.While our distribution sales are small compared to big craft breweries, our DTC business has been ahead of the curve and given us a bigger advantage to grow in both channelsKnox: The Bruery often collaborates with other companies. What are some of your more unique partnerships? Holmes: We often collaborate with great breweries which appeals to members and customers who are avid craft beer fans. It’s also a good way to stay connected to the best breweries in the industry and continue to innovate. However, the most interesting collaborations are the ones that transcend craft beer. The biggest partnership we’ve had to date has been with Top Chef star, Brooke Williamson. We’ve collaborated with Brooke on several beers focused on taste profiles that would accentuate dishes driven by her culinary talents. Collaborations like this help us reach a different audience in an authentic way and stand out from the crowd. We often hear our beer drinks like a wine which I interpret as very strong awareness with a new group who never thought of beer like this. Knox: On the note of things you’d expect from a winery, The Bruery is constantly pushing the envelope on innovations like your recent beer wine hybrid. How do you think about educating the market and driving to what that next innovation might be for the business?Holmes: Our beer/wine hybrids have been a way for us to innovate in ways that really surprise people. Most consumers think of wine and beer as very different, but our approach is to focus on taste and we’ve found many ways to create hybrids that shock some traditionalists, but nevertheless taste great and add to our brand.The relationship we have with our members allows us to speak directly to them about these beers, how they were inspired and created, and how best to consume them, etc. It’s one of the secret weapons of a membership model to be able to cut through the noise of the market and describe a product that’s more complicated and nuanced.Knox: So as you guys look where you're going, what's next for The Bruery?Holmes: While we continue to navigate the effects of the pandemic, we remain focused on innovation and growth. We have a lot of interesting things in the pipeline, some are extensions of great ideas in the beer world and others are pushing into other beverage alcohol categories. We are launching a hazy pale ale under the Offshoot brand in January called Coast and the initial feedback has been amazing. This will be a distributed brand and will also be available on our website. We’ve also opened up several states for DTC shipping like Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Ohio among others. 2022 will be the first year people in those states can join Reserve Society and have the beer shipped to them. Additionally, we have opened several states in the distribution channel like South Carolina, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho, and Tennesee. This has allowed us to unlock some chain opportunities and simply get our beer to a broader audience.