The Los Angeles Lakers — and Russell Westbrook —could benefit from Anthony Davis' injury. (Luis  Sinco / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images) The Los Angeles Lakers may be without Anthony Davis for at least four weeks, but it doesn’t matter — they won’t have any excuses.The Lakers received bad news at the worst possible time as NBA teams continue to reshuffle rosters due to COVID-19 protocols. Their All-Star big man will be sidelined for the foreseeable future due to an MCL sprain in his left knee.Los Angeles continues to just hang around in the last few spots in the Western Conference playoff race. They’re currently 16-14 and tied with the Los Angeles Clippers for the fifth spot in the West.While the Davis injury could be used as an excuse for an already-struggling Lakers squad, it shouldn’t be — this was the precise reason the franchise acquired Russell Westbrook.One of the chief concerns of the Lakers — even when factoring in their 2020 NBA Finals win — was the durability of the LeBron James-Davis duo. James’ prolonged injury absence (he missed 27 games last season) and Davis’ own extended absence due to injury (he was out for 36 games) led to Westbrook’s acquisition.James is on the verge of turning 37 years old and has missed more and more games in recent memory. In Davis’ case, he’s always been an injury-prone player. The 28-year-old hasn’t appeared in more than 62 games since the 2017-18 season and he’s only appeared in more than 68 games in a single season in two of his years in the league.Meanwhile, for all of Westbrook’s faults, one thing you can’t fault him for is his durability. The 33-year-old rarely misses games and has yet to miss one this season. In fact, he’s appeared in at least 80 games in six of his 13 full seasons in the league.The Lakers will clearly miss the presence of their All-Star big man. The team doesn’t have much depth and they’ll be forced to rely on DeAndre Jordan — who is back in the rotation out of necessity — and Dwight Howard, who remains sidelined due to COVID-19 protocols.However, the absence of Davis means the paint won’t be clogged and it’ll be one less star player to share the ball with. That gives Westbrook free rein to drive to the hoop and be aggressive on offense. For perspective, understand this — Westbrook has tried so hard to fit in on offense and not be a ball-dominant, shooting-first point guard, that he’s only led the team in scoring once this season. Meanwhile, he’s led the team in assists in 19 of the team’s 30 games this season.Eight of the team’s next 11 games will be at home, while six of those contests are against teams with losing records.One of the Lakers’ most efficient lineups all season long has been Westbrook, James, Howard, Talen Horton-Tucker and Avery Bradley on the court. In 51 possessions, they’re outscoring opponents by 43.6 points while shooting an effective field-goal percentage of 62.8% and allowing an effective field-goal percentage of just 39.7%, according to Cleaning The Glass.Compare that to a standard Lakers starting five of Davis, James, Howard, Horton-Tucker, Bradley and Westbrook, and the team is outscoring opponents by just 5.6 points per 100 possessions. They’re shooting an effective field-goal percentage of just 60.9% and allowing an effective field-goal percentage of 57.0%.Many Lakers fans will feel Davis’ injury will be a detriment to the season. It’ll also fuel the argument that Los Angeles hasn’t had time to gel with their three-headed trio — especially when one considers the trio has only appeared in 15 games together.But as odd as it sounds, this injury could be a blessing in disguise. The absence of Davis will space the floor and allow Westbrook to gain confidence as the Lakers look to gain momentum — with a favorable schedule — for the first time this season.