MUSH ready-to-eat oats are plant-based, low in sugar and come in a variety of flavors. During her first few months working as an investment banker at Goldman Sachs, Ashley Thompson faced a challenge. She would be starving after her daily early morning run, but she could not find a quick, healthy breakfast option in the company kitchen. Even the instant oatmeal packets contained a whopping 20 grams of sugar. For Thompson, this experience of working in an intense, fast-paced environment for long hours shed light on the difficulty of eating well in modern-day America. She decided to commercialize something she had created as a hack as a kid: oatmeal soaked overnight in milk. Thompson began selling handmade batches of naturally gluten-free, protein-rich, vegan overnight oats made with plant-based milk and sweetened only by dates for zero added sugar at farmer’s markets in San Diego. She has since grown MUSH into the leading brand in its category, beloved by parents, fitness enthusiasts, health gurus, and celebrities alike, including Mark Cuban, Kim Kardashian, Nina Agdal, Joe Jonas and more. In the past year alone, Thompson was able to triple MUSH’s physical distribution, triple year-over-year revenue, and lower the price of her healthy, ready-made product to make it more affordable to consumers. Offered in a variety of flavors, MUSH is currently available in single-serving packages both direct-to-consumer and at more than 10,000 retail stores nationwide, including Amazon, Whole Foods and Target.Ashley Thompson is the founder and CEO of MUSH.“I’ve been following my heart and gut to success,” says Thompson. “My life purpose is to help others achieve physical and mental wellbeing. Better outcomes in life begin with better food, which leads to improved health and wellness overall.”The journey actually began for Thompson in childhood. With five kids, her working parents had scarce resources. “It wasn’t poverty, but it was close,” Thompson says. So, she grew up eating a ton of cereal. As a teenager, her older sister was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes. Various other family members suffered both physical and mental health issues. This made Thompson curious as to the connection between what we eat and how we feel. When she quit her prestigious, high-paying job at Goldman Sachs to found MUSH, Thompson says she had no idea what she was getting herself into. “Discipline and passion get you far, but when it comes to starting your own company, ignorance is bliss.” She bootstrapped the company for a long time before bringing in outside investments from serial entrepreneurs and successful business owners who wanted to help.The biggest challenge Thompson has faced with MUSH is how to scale a product that no one has ever scaled before. Her oats are refrigerated and have no preservatives or artificial ingredients, so scaling was particularly difficult. But overall, Thompson has found that part of the journey enjoyable. “It’s tough but fun to solve those kinds of problems,” she says. To aspiring entrepreneurs, Thompson offers this advice. “Follow your gut and don’t be scared. Often when folks are just starting out, they become overwhelmed by thinking of the whole trajectory of entrepreneurship. ‘How do I get from 0 to 1,000?’ they ask themselves. Don’t think about that. You just need the courage for the next best step. Big things start small. There are a lot of steps in between. Take it day by day. The everyday work will get you where you want to go.”