Indiana Pacers owner Herb Simon speaks following the announcement in Indianapolis, Wednesday, Dec.  13, 2017 that Indianapolis will host the 2021 NBA All-Star game . (AP Photo/Michael Conroy)Indiana Pacers owner Herb Simon trusts the people he hires. He loves basketball, but he has confidence in the individuals who make decisions for his basketball team. “I love basketball, but a lot of the technique or the details are not my style. So you hire professionals... Now you could question them and push them a little bit, but those are the guys that really should make the decisions.” He made these thoughts clear when he spoke with local reporters in the Pacers practice facility on Wednesday.But Simon also made something else clear — he doesn’t like seeing his name attached to reports about what he supposedly thinks. He doesn’t want any of his thoughts to be paired with the words “allegedly” or “reportedly.” Simon wanted to make his feelings about the direction of the Pacers known to everyone, on the record.“We’re not in a panic mode to make changes,” Indiana’s owner said about his team. “Every team looks for opportunities.”Simon made these comments just one week after The Athletic reported that the Pacers are potentially heading toward a rebuild. Indiana finished the 2020-21 season under .500 and are currently 13-18, so altering the roster makes a lot of sense. This Pacers core hasn’t won a single playoff game.On top of the poor record in recent seasons, the team’s attendance is low and the overall opinion of the team is defeatist amongst fans. Some sort of change could be needed to reinvigorate the fanbase.Simon still believes that things will improve in several areas — on the court, in the TV streaming department, and in terms of attendance. That’s why he isn’t in panic mode. But he also recognizes where things could be heading as the Pacers continue to struggle this season.“You put together a roster. If it's not working, around the edges try to improve it,” Simon explained. “And if you’re either not doing well or you're doing very well, we can make some major changes.”That’s a revealing quote coming from a team’s owner. Especially because right now, the Pacers aren’t doing very well. Indiana hasn’t been a team to make midseason trades under Kevin Pritchard’s leadership, they have only completed a couple in the last half decade. But even Simon recognizes that changes, while they may not need to come right away, are something that a team in the Pacers situation could consider this season.Beyond that admission, though, is where things get trickier. Sure, the franchise could consider trades, but Simon explained that his franchise won't do a rebuild where much of the roster is moved. He doesn't believe in bottoming out and tanking.“We’re not a franchise that's going to dump to get a better pick. We're going to try to win every game,” he said.Running parallel to that line of thinking is Simon taking a shine to his current roster. “I love our little team,” the 87-year old explained. “I think we have a very good team.”In tandem, those two statements suggest the Pacers won't make any rebuilding moves at all. If the owner of a franchise likes the roster and doesn't ever want to tear it down for higher draft picks, then refashioning the roster isn't going to happen on a large scale.But Simon also said that he believes teams that are not doing well need to make changes around the edges. And that is where the Pacers are. They're in 13th place in the Eastern Conference, and they finished in ninth place last season. Even if the team is likeable in the owner’s eyes and has the talent to win more games than they actually have, the results are what they are.So how do the Pacers, and the decision makers that Simon trusts, proceed with all of these feelings and constraints? The owner likes the team and won’t tear it down, but confesses that teams in a substandard situation should try to improve on the edges. How can both of those opinions be reconciled? At some point, it may be almost necessary to appeal to fans by adjusting directions in some way.Simon has his own idea of what that resolution looks like. He describes it as building on the go.“We always built without without tearing down, built on the go,” Simon said. “And we can do the same thing. We can have a good team and get better rather than break it up to get better.”Building on the go is extremely difficult. If it was easy to elevate a roster from good to great, more teams would do it. But it's not simple — it’s incredibly challenging.Yet Simon is optimistic about this path forward for the Pacers, should they decide to make changes. And while it's a difficult team-building objective, it's understandable why he feels it’s feasible. First and foremost, leaders and owners tend to be positive about the direction their team is headed in general. Simon played a part, mostly via spending and hiring, to get the Pacers to this point. He is going to believe in what the outcomes of his decisions will be, even if the results aren’t there yet.NBA Commissioner Adam Silver, left, is joined by Indiana Pacers owner Herb Simon, right, and Larry  Bird, after he announced in Indianapolis, Wednesday, Dec. 13, 2017 that Indianapolis will host the 2021 NBA All-Star game . (AP Photo/Michael Conroy)The other reason Indiana's owner may believe in this route forward is that he has seen it work multiple times before. Former Pacers General Manager Donnie Walsh built on the go in the early 2000s — he turned a Pacers team that won just 41 games in 2001 to a Conference Finals contender just three years later. Roughly one decade later, former President of Basketball Operations Larry Bird did something similar. With an assist from Walsh, he took a good Pacers team and made it great — the Pacers won just 37 games in 2011, but would go on to reach the Conference Finals twice in the next three seasons. The team from the Circle City has a unique history of success with a demanding team-building strategy.Despite Indiana's past successes building on the go, countless other franchises have failed to do so. Simon deserves credit for putting the right people in decision-making roles to make it work in the past. But there is always a luck element to these things. Multiple General Managers have admitted such in NBA history.That's not to say the Pacers have to get lucky to get better. But even the people who have to make the decisions have described good fortune as a factor in team building, and such statements do help crystallize how tricky it can be to build on the go, as Simon wants to do.Because there is a luck element, and because Simon likes his current team, this organization may make no big moves at all this season. Simon did say “around the edges” when describing where a struggling team may makes changes, after all. But despite all of these notes and quotes, the Pacers making only small tweaks feels unlikely given the team's record and the fact that starting center Myles Turner publicly requested a larger role. Turner made it clear he isn't requesting a trade himself or taking a shot at anyone, but it is difficult to see him getting more clarity on a larger role in basketball games unless he or others are dealt to another team. Plus, Simon himself said that squads who aren’t doing well can undergo major changes.So, where does all this leave the Pacers? Simon doesn't want to get worse now to get better later, but going from 13th place to a playoff team just by making a few moves around the edges is nearly impossible. What is going to give? That’s difficult to say. The current situation in Indiana leaves team decision makers with an incredibly small margin for error. They have to find a way to make the Pacers better, and try to get the talent required to succeed in the postseason, without grabbing a high draft pick. That's a difficult objective, and one that will take time. But time is of the essence as the link between the franchise and its fans becomes more tenuous.Simon thinks the Pacers can get stars, or at least players who have the talent to give the team a significant boost, in free agency. When he was asked about being unable to acquire elite talent in free agency, he rejected the premise of the question. But history says the question is more than fair. All the best players in Indiana’s franchise history — Reggie Miller, Paul George, Jermaine O'Neal, Victor Oladipo, and Danny Granger to name a few — were acquired via the draft or via a trade. Free agency hasn't been kind to the Pacers, or other non-glamor markets, throughout the last few decades of NBA history. Since the Pacers won’t bottom out, perhaps an aggressive trade for a high-impact player would satisfy Simon’s build on the go strategy.The Pacers owner also said he would be willing to spend on stars if they had interest in the Pacers. He has opened up the checkbook for David West, Paul George, Domantas Sabonis, and Malcolm Brogdon this decade. None of those players were mega talents at the time they inked a deal with the blue and gold, but they are very good players who serve as evidence that Simon would pay up to improve his team. The Pacers have a local reputation of being a somewhat budget-conscious franchise, but they currently rank 15th in player spending and Pritchard has mentioned in the past that Simon has always been willing to spend when Pritchard finds a productive signing available.Indiana's owner also recently provided funds for a new practice facility and some funding for the renovations to Gainbridge Fieldhouse, the Pacers recently-updated stadium. He is willing to allocate funds to improve the franchise.Given where the team is now, that must continue. Part of not bottoming out is continuing to spend. So, while trades are probably needed for the Pacers to get better and lure some eyeballs back to the team, spending to keep the team relevant — a term used by Pacers head coach Rick Carlisle when he was discussing his new team this offseason — is imperative.Continued spending and an aggressive pursuit of upgrades are just two specific tasks for the Pacers to execute if they want to build on the go and light more fire in the franchise, both in terms of team success and fan engagement. “Why would we want to go through a rebuild when we can build on the go? That's the talent,” Simon said. Donnie [Walsh] did it all the time. Larry [Bird] did it. Kevin will do it. We can do it.” Kevin will do it. That’s a powerful statement, and Pritchard and Simon do have a strong relationship. But how Pritchard will do it remains to be seen. Walsh and Bird built on the go, but it took a few seasons. Perhaps Pritchard’s next moves are smaller, but are important in setting up bigger moves in the future.That directional choice would mesh with Simon's comments, which may have tipped that the Pacers are looking to make subtle changes. His comments also may indicate that the team will relax and stay out of panic mode. He didn't detail the Pacers exact direction.But he did explain that he thinks the Pacers can build on the go and can get better from where they are right now. He thinks the current core is that of a playoff team. But the Pacers are 73-77 in their last 150 games. If they are a playoff team that can build on the go, it's time for the franchise to prove it. Because right now, they are a team that the owner likes, but not a team that is accomplishing anything.