Tom Holland as Spider-Man and Benedict Cumberbatch as Doctor Strange.Marvel’s  latest release Spider-Man No Way Home emerged as one of the year’s best performers at the ticket windows in India, collecting $14.2 million (Rs 108.37 crore) over the four-day extended weekend. Living up to trade expectations, the film made an opening collection of $4.3 million (Rs 32.67 crore) in India on Thursday. The latest Spider-Man film also emerged as the highest-grossing Spider-Man movie in India. In just four days, Spider-Man No Way Home has already surpassed the lifetime business of any other film in the franchise.  The first Spider-Man movie, The Amazing Spider-Man, made a lifetime collection of $11.9 million (Rs 90.7 crore) in India while the second one made $11.5 million (Rs 87.50 crore). Spider Man Homecoming and Spider Man Far From Home earned $9.9 million (Rs 75.24 crore) and $13.4 million (Rs 102 crore) respectively.Spider Man No Way Home has also outperformed Rohit Shetty’s Sooryavanshi. Headlined by Akshay Kumar, Sooryavanshi earned $10.1 million (Rs 77.8 crore) over the debut weekend. The film has now collected $38.2 million (Rs 290.14 crore). Directed by Jon Watts, and written by Chris McKenna & Erik Sommers; Spider-Man No Way Home is produced by Kevin and Feige Amy Pascal. Louis D'Esposito, Victoria Alonso, JoAnn Perritano, Rachel O’Connor, Avi Arad, and Matt Tolmach are executive producers for the film. Spider-Man No Way Home earned $253 million globally in the first weekend and has now collected $587 million worldwide. In the new film, Spider-Man’s identity has been leaked and he wants to rectify things that are happening around Peter Parker as consequences of the leak. Peter Parker gets Doctor Strange to use a magic spell to help, but ends up tampering with the spell, because of his own childish indecisiveness.Sooryavanshi is the fourth film in his ‘cop universe’. Kumar featured alongside Katrina Kaif in the film that also had Ajay Devgn and Ranveer Singh in guest roles in the film. Shetty first came up with Devgn’s Singham in 2011 which proved to be the first film in what he calls his ‘cop universe’, and followed it up with Singham Returns three years later. Featuring Singh in the lead role, Simmba (2018) was the third film in the franchise.