Travel between the U.S. and Israel will be banned, Israel announced Sunday, in a step to prevent the spread of the omicron variant and Covid-19, which is ravaging much of Europe and on the rise in the U.S.  El Al Israel Airlines Boeing 737-858(WL) with registration 4X-EKB aircraft seen at Boryspil Airport.  Starting Wednesday, December 22, the U.S., Belgium, Canada, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Morocco, Portugal, Switzerland and Turkey will be on Israel’s no-fly list and travel from the U.S. to Israel will be banned because of high Covid-19 infection rates, ABC News reported. Over 12,000 new omicron cases were reported in the U.K. Saturday, a 48% increase from the day before—the variant is now the dominant strain in the country, overtaking delta—and the country reported over 37,000 total cases of the variant, according to government data. Omicron has been detected in 89 countries, according to the World Health Organization, and is the dominant strain in Ireland and Denmark. Because of the variant, the Netherlands entered a month-long lockdown Sunday to try to curb the spread, the first European country to re-impose drastic restrictions. Germany announced a ban on travelers from the U.K. to prevent the spread of omicron.As new restrictions were imposed in Belgium, France and the U.K, citizens took to the streets to protest over the weekend. Over 274 million. That’s how many Covid-19 cases are  reported around the world. The U.S., the U.K., Germany, France and Russia have the highest number of cases in the last 28 days, according to Johns Hopkins University. “It’s raging through the world,” White House Chief Medical Advisor Dr. Anthony Fauci said Sunday, of omicron. Wednesday, the U.K. set a record for the most daily coronavirus cases reported in the country throughout the entire pandemic—a record they also broke on Thursday and Friday. In South Africa, where omicron is believed to have originated, cases decreased Friday in the country after a surge from the delta variant. Omicron represented 2.9% of U.S. coronavirus infections in the week ending December 11, compared to 96.7% of Delta, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Omicron Wave: South Africa's Peak Is Declining While U.K. Sets Highest Case Record For Third Day In A Row (Forbes) U.K. Sets New Record For Daily Covid-19 Cases (Forbes)