Japanese snowboarder Ayumu Hirano competes in the men's superpipe final at Dew Tour, where he  claimed the first-ever triple cork performed in competitionIf you had read going into the men’s snowboarding superpipe final at Dew Tour on Sunday that one of the riders would claim the first-ever triple cork in competition and not even make the podium, you might have (understandably) struggled to believe it. But that’s exactly what happened in a frenetic men’s final that saw the level of progression reach new heights. And in the midst of it all, Japan’s Ayumu Hirano staked claim to the triple, performing a frontside triple cork 1440 (four full rotations and three off-axis flips) in his third and final run of the day, which was also the final run of the contest. After throwing down the triple, Hirano, 23, wasn’t able to land the next trick in his run, which accounted for his fifth-place finish. On the final runs, American Taylor Gold was leading the scoring with a 92.00 when Japan’s Yuto Totsuka of Japan, who was in second at 90.00, took his final attempt. Totsuka’s run instantly moved him up into first place with a huge 1440 into a switch backside 1260, following it up with a switch backside 1080, backside 1260 and frontside 1260.Hirano had previously landed the triple at training camp in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, as Ruka Hirano and Totsuka also had. His attempt at doing it Sunday was clearly an effort to move into first place ahead of Totsuka. Gold prevented a full Japan sweep with his first of three runs holding through to land him in second place, a highly technical run including a McTwist, frontside 1260 with a tailgrab, his signature double Michalchuk 1080 and then a switch McTwist as a setup trick for the switch 1080.“It was crazy to see Ayumu do the triple cork,” Totsuka said after the contest, noting that he would most likely plan to do it at the Olympics.“The bar’s been raised and it’s been set, and now it’s nice because we’re all aware, at least I’m very aware, that’s where it is and this is where we need to be,” White told me in November after witnessing the Japanese riders land their triples in Switzerland. “It’s a lot harder to kind of shoot in the dark, to go ‘maybe they’re gonna do this or maybe that’s gonna happen.’ I have a much clearer vision of what is happening now. It’s a lot easier to run toward the finish line when you can see it.”More history was made in the men’s superpipe final as White announced his retirement from Dew Tour, which he first competed in in 2008 and had appeared at eight times. White had also said earlier in the week that the Beijing Olympics would likely be his “last run.”Though White finished off the podium on Sunday, he earned valuable points toward qualifying for the U.S. Olympic snowboard halfpipe team. But whichever Americans make the team, which will be announced on or before January 17, will have the triple and Team Japan to contend with to try and get on the podium at the Games.