Lee Jin-wook plays Hwal, a monster killer cursed by a monster.Bulgasal: The Immortals begins as engaging historical fiction that commands viewers’ attention from its horrific opening scenes set in the late Goryeo era. The plot begins at the end of the 14th century, when man-eating monsters terrorized a fictional Korea. The most feared of all monsters was a creature known as Bulgasal. Villagers sacrificed human victims to appease the monster’s potential wrath.That almost happens to a nameless child. He’s neglected, abused and almost killed because he is said to be cursed by Bulgasal, who will supposedly come looking for him. The child is rescued by a general, who does not believe Bulgasal really exists. Named Dan Hwal, the lonely child grows up to become a skilled monster killer who rids the land of all remaining monsters. All but Bulgasal. No living person has ever seen Bulgasal and some, like the general, think the monster is a myth. Hwal is convinced that Bulgasal is real and that his destiny continues to be tragic because of the monster. Everyone who comes close to him bears the burden of his curse. Mysteriously, Hwal becomes an immortal and lives to the present day.Kwon Nara plays a mysterious immortal creature.The plot charges toward the present at a heart-pounding pace. Lee Jin-wook, last seen fighting monsters in Sweet Home, delivers the right amount of intensity to play the tortured Hwal. Kwon Nara, who played Park Seo-joon’s first love in Itaewon Class, plays a mysterious immortal creature—sometimes kind, sometimes cruel. Her fate is entwined with Hwal’s. While Hwal gains immortality, she is eventually reborn as the human Min Sang-woon. For a story about monsters, Bulgasal: Immortal Souls is beautiful to look at, with lyrical visual details that help the horror-tinged fantasy transcend genre. Ragged thread tangles with hair. Blood discolors snow and the sockets of a child’s eye bandage. Blood slithers down tree bark and armor at the scenes of monstrous attacks. Hwal battles monsters in a landscape that seems lit by hellfire. Such cinematic skill is seductive and it will be interesting to see how the saga is portrayed in the present.Hwal must solve the mystery of his destiny even if it takes multiple lifetimes. He pursues Sang-woon not only to understand his curse, but to seek revenge.Lee Joon plays the immortal Ok Eul-tae, a man for whom immortality has paid off in material wealth. The actor can also be seen this month in the drama The Silent Sea. Gong Seung-yeon, who appears in the film Aloners, plays Hwal’s wife during the early Joseon era and another character in the present. Jung Jin-young plays the general who rescues Hwal. The tvN drama airs on Netflix 
  
  NFLX 
 .