Brooklyn Nets forward Kevin Durant (7) shoots a basket over Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid  (21) during the second half of an NBA basketball game, Thursday, Dec. 16, 2021, in New York. The Nets won 114-105. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer)As the Omicron variant continues to sweep through the nation, the Brooklyn Nets have been hit hard.Both Kyrie Irving and Kevin Durant have entered the NBA’s health and safety protocols, becoming the eighth and ninth Nets to enter, including fellow stars James Harden and LaMarcus Aldridge. Rookie big man Day’ron Sharpe became the 10th Net in protocols later Saturday.The Nets on Friday listed a dozen players dealing with either injuries (including shooting guard Joe Harris) or health and protocol issues ahead of Saturday’s game with the Orlando Magic — and that was before Irving, Durant and Sharpe entered protocols.The Irving news comes one day after the Nets announced the unvaccinated star would return as a part-time player for road games excluding those in New York and Toronto. The team in October had banned Irving until he either gets vaccinated or New York City vaccine mandates change.Because he returned a positive or inconclusive test and is unvaccinated, Irving must have five days of consecutive negative tests, according to reports. That means the seven-time NBA All-Star could debut Thursday in Portland and also play in the big Christmas Day game against LeBron James and the Lakers in Los Angeles — assuming he tests negatively for five days.Asked what input Durant and Harden had in bringing Irving back, Nets GM Sean Marks said Saturday, “Everybody was on board with the decision that's being made"Marks said he’s not concerned about any potential “negative impact” of bringing back a part-time player who will only play road games and could disrupt the team’s positive season."I'm not concerned about the negative impact. I'm not thinking, 'what if?' When you have an opportunity to add a player like this at a juncture like this, in dealing with unforeseen circumstances... the decisions are being made for what's best for the team right now" -The Nets have been paying Irving for road games — and he was slated to make about half of his $35 million salary this season — but they are taking a health risk by bringing the seven-time All-Star back.“I’m excited to have Kyrie back, obviously he’s an incredible player,” Nets coach Steve Nash said. “No matter what capacity we incorporate him in, it’s positive for our group.”Durant tested positive for Covid in March of 2020 and also missed three games in January after exposure to a positive Covid case.Cases have snowballed nationwide this week with an average 120,000 new cases reported per day, a 31 percent spike from two weeks ago, according to The New York Times database. Surges in heavily vaccinated places like New York City, where cases with the Omicron variant are doubling almost daily, have prompted public health officials to urge vaccinated people to get booster shots.“What’s happening in sports is a mirror of what’s happening in society,” John Swartzberg, an infectious disease and vaccinology professor emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley, told The Times.Desperate for players, the Nets have added several players on 10-Day contracts, including wing James Ennis III and guard Shaquille Harrison, and will reportedly add former Kentucky standout Wenyen Gabriel. That followed the signing of guard Langston Galloway to a 10-Day.The Nets (21-8) are in first place in the Eastern Conference as they pursue their stated goal of winning the franchise’s first NBA championship. But they must lessen their reliance on Durant, Irving’s close friend who leads the NBA in minutes played (37) and points per game (29.7) and is playing at an MVP level.“I don’t know we can continue to lean on him the way we have,” Nets coach Steve Nash said this week. “It doesn’t feel right.“I know he’s enjoying it. I know he’s enjoying playing at the rate he’s playing at and trying to bring his teammates along with him and all the responsibility that he’s accepted and crushed, basically. It’s just been incredible. But, at the same time, it’s not safe or sustainable to lean on him like that. There’s gonna be a lot of consideration and we’ll have to figure out ways to give him breaks.”Now Durant will get a break the team was not anticipating.