MLB commissioner Rob Manfred is named as the defendant in a lawsuit challenging the league's  antitrust exemption over the contraction of 20 club affiliates in minor league baseball. (Photo by Elsa/Getty Images)A lawsuit has been filed against Major League Baseball’s long-held antitrust exemption that could have profound consequences to the league.The law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges is suing the league in response to the takeover of Minor League Baseball saying that MLB is positioning itself to control all facets of baseball. With the takeover, in September of 2020 MLB removed affiliation from 40 minor league clubs and regionally realigned them. Overall, the contraction decreased the total number of affiliated teams from 160 to 120.The lawsuit, filed in Manhattan federal court claims MLB’s takeover and contraction is a “naked, horizontal agreement to cement MLB’s dominance over all professional baseball.” The lawsuit adds, “There is no plausible procompetitive justification for this anticompetitive agreement.”Past and present Weil Litigation Department co-chairs Jim Quinn and David Lender filed the suit. In a statement from Weil, Gotshal & Manges, the firm said, “Quinn (now with Berg & Androphy) and Lender are launching a frontal attack on MLB’s business model, coinciding with the recent lockout imposed by MLB and its owners to essentially freeze the free agency process. Quinn and Lender are aiming to vindicate the rights of the players and athletes responsible for generating multiple billions of dollars in revenues each year, similar to what has been achieved for NBA and NFL players in past disputes.”Plaintiffs in the case are the Staten Island Yankees, the Tri-City Valley Cats, the Salem-Keizer Volcanoes, and the Norwich Sea Unicorns. All four clubs saw their minor league affiliation with Major League Baseball removed under contraction.The defendant in the case is MLB commissioner Rob Manfred. Major League Baseball said they normally do not comment on pending litigation. In 1922, the U.S. Supreme Court granted antitrust exemption to Major League Baseball saying that while games between the teams were played across interstate lines, the league did not violate the Sherman Act. The case, Federal Baseball Club v. National League, saw a unanimous decision with Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes writing the decision. The case was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. Holmes wrote that while games are played across state lines, the construct of the league did not require it.“The business is giving exhibitions of baseball, which are purely state affairs,” Holmes wrote in the decision. “It is true that, in order to attain for these exhibitions the great popularity that they have achieved, competitions must be arranged between clubs from different cities and states. But the fact that, in order to give the exhibitions, the Leagues must induce free persons to cross state lines and must arrange and pay for their doing so is not enough to change the character of the business.”Major League Baseball has said that the contraction of the minor league clubs was done to ensure quality facilities, less travel hardship, and increased salaries for the players. Most recently, MLB announced that more than 90% of players in the minor leagues would now receive housing accommodations paid for by each MLB club affiliate beginning with the 2022 season.The lawsuit filed on behalf of the four former minor league clubs cites the recent unanimous decision in NCAA v. Alston in which the court narrowed the 1922 Federal Baseball Club v. National League U.S. Supreme Court ruling.“To be sure, this Court once dallied with something that looks a bit like an antitrust exemption for professional baseball. In Federal Baseball Club of Baltimore, lnc. v. National League of Professional Baseball Clubs, 259 U.S. 200 (1922), the Court reasoned that "exhibitions" of "base ball" did not implicate the Sherman Act because they did not involve interstate trade or commerce-even though teams regularly crossed state lines (as they do today) to make money and enhance their commercial success. ld., at 208-209. But this Court has refused to extend Federal Baseball's reasoning to other sports leagues-and has even acknowledged criticisms of the decision as "unrealistic" and "inconsistent" and "aberration[al]."There have been several lawsuits challenging MLB’s antitrust exemption since the 1922 U.S. Supreme Court ruling. A recent case in 2012 involved how media rights distribution impacts how fans watch games. That case was settled.Major League Baseball is the only one out of the four major North American leagues to hold broad antitrust exemption.