JERSEY CITY, NJ - AUGUST 22: A general view of the New York City skyline from the 4th green during  the final round of the Northern Trust golf tournament on August 23, 2021 at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, NJ (Photo by Rich Graessle/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images)While the velocity of the Covid-19 golf boom may be starting to ebb, for Liberty National Golf Club which experienced a 20-25% uptick in rounds played in 2021 over 2020 and demand for club fitting services more than doubling up year-over-year, the expectation is the surge will have staying power.“I do see the success and popularity persisting for years to come. I think it will right-size itself a little bit as people start to settle in and offices do start opening. With Omicron, we are seeing a lot of offices delay their get back dates,” Lee Smith, the club’s managing director, who came onboard in 2017 shortly after the golf course hosted the President’s Cup, says.Liberty National is owned by Paul Fireman who helmed Reebok for a quarter century before selling the athletic shoe company to Adidas for $3.8 billion in 2006 and netting a tidy fortune in the deal. The club, plotted along a mile of Hudson River waterfront in Jersey City on the site of a former landfill, cost $250 million to build and features a panoramic view of the lower Manhattan skyline.Like many tri-state area golf courses they experienced the golf boom later than most parts of the country.  During the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the spring of 2020, there was an exodus from the city and outlying areas. Tens of thousands of wealthy New Yorkers left, heading to areas of the country where the virus didn’t seem to be hiding around every corner and bodies weren’t piling up in makeshift morgues. By the fall, displaced residents began to return home and with them tee sheets began to fill up.“We didn’t see what the rest of the country saw until school got back in in the fall of 2020 and that’s when everybody came back to the city and we started to see a sizeable ramp up in activity,” Smith remembers.With office buildings closed, and the remote working epoch already underway, the golf course and the clubhouse became a de facto office for many members and their families. “All of a sudden folks that might play one time a week typically, were now playing three times a week. The people that played once a month were now playing once a week,” Smith explains.Looking back over the low-points of the twenty-first century whether that be 9/11, the 2008-2009 recession or the current pandemic, the business world tends to emerge smarter, nimbler and more profitable.   Whenever there has been a Covid wave, having club staff equipped to perform multiple job functions when necessary has proven pivotal. Cross-training staff will likely be another continuing trend that outlasts the pandemic.“Staff can now do more things than they used to be able to do,” Smith explains. Whether that’s security personnel that can also carry golf bags, run golf carts and function as an outside assistant or a front desk worker who can give food and beverage or maintenance a hand if needed,” he addsWhen employees would test positive and go into quarantine, there would be short-staffed departments, and management would then scramble to move staff around to fill the gaps as needed.“I can’t say enough about our staff and how they treated everybody during this time and their willingness to jump in and work in different locations when one place may be short,” Smith adds. Outdoor dining is another habit that is likely here to stay. While Liberty National didn’t undergo renovations, they did add tables to grassy areas to augment outdoor seating. They also pumped in music and added heat lamps during the shoulder seasons to keep the alfresco areas comfortable in colder weather.“We really think that outdoor dining and outdoor events that may be used to being in a banquet hall now might be outdoors under an open-air tent,” Smith says.JERSEY CITY, NJ - AUGUST 22: Xander Schauffele of the United States on the 14th green during the  final round of the Northern Trust golf tournament on August 23, 2021 at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, NJ (Photo by Rich Graessle/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images)Looking AheadThe golf viewing public last saw Liberty National this past August at the Northern Trust 
  
  NTRS 
 . In the lead up to the event, the Delta variant was on its way to becoming the predominant strain of the virus necessitating extra scenario planning just in case certain aspects of the event would need to be changed, but in the end there was no significant operational impact. While that tour date, which rotated between the New York and Boston area, is not on the 2022 schedule, the venue has a long-term deal with the PGA Tour and will almost certainly host the top circuit again in the future.In the meantime, the club will be hosting a new event called the Icons Series in June of 2022. This will be a Ryder Cup style match play tournament pitting twelve U.S. sporting icons, both current and former, against twelve athletes from the rest of the world.