Max Scherzer was a rental for the Dodgers this past season, and now takes his glittering resume to  the Mets.Former major league executive Dan Duquette has a long baseball history with Hall of Fame pitcher Pedro Martinez, going back to Duquette’s Montreal Expos front office days. Duquette traded for Martinez twice — in one of his final deals before he left his Montreal general manager post to become the Boston Red Sox GM, Duquette sent Delino DeShields to the Los Angeles Dodgers and brought the young Dominican right-hander Martinez to the Expos in late 1993. Later that decade, Duquette again traded for Martinez, acquiring the then reigning National League Cy Young award-winner from the Expos to pitch for the storied Red Sox franchise. “The kind of trade that you dream of, right? Acquiring the Cy Young winner of the opposite league,” said Duquette in a recent interview. “Based upon Pedro’s size (5-11), there were concerns, notably by the Dodgers, that he wouldn't be able to withstand the rigors of starting pitching. They were certainly real considerations for the investment that we needed to make to sign Pedro to a long-term deal in Boston. We did our due diligence and we bet on Pedro. It ended up being a good contract for the Red Sox and Pedro.”Martinez was only 26 when he joined the Red Sox, his prime years and two more Cy Young awards ahead of him. He would eventually anchor a rotation with Curt Schilling that helped Boston bury an 86-year-old curse, when the 2004 Red Sox won the World Series, sweeping the St. Louis Cardinals (although Duquette was no longer the team GM by then, having been fired in 2002). Still, when Martinez left Boston as a free agent after that historic ‘04 season to sign a four-year, $53 million deal with the New York Mets, he was still “at the top of his game,” according to Duquette. Martinez joining the Mets was a splashy beginning to Omar Minaya’s general manager tenure in Flushing, and comparisons are already being made to current Mets GM Billy Eppler’s inaugural blockbuster transaction, acquiring free-agent pitcher Max Scherzer. The 37-year-old Scherzer — like Martinez a three-time Cy Young award-winner — signed a three-year, $130 million deal with the Mets right before the owners locked out the players in the latest MLB work stoppage. Scherzer’s average annual salary is $43.33 million, a record-setting pact. The right-hander has an opt-out clause after the second year. “They’re first-rate major league pitchers, right? Pedro’s in the Hall of Fame. Scherzer is working on the credentials to get into the Hall of Fame when he’s done playing,” said Duquette. “Scherzer’s a little older at this stage of his signing with the Mets than Pedro was. Pedro had a great first year (2005) with the Mets, then the wear and tear of pitching got to him.”After he helped the Red Sox win the World Series in 2004, Pedro Martinez signed a four-year deal  with the Mets as a free agent.Yes, Martinez ended up being injured for long stretches of his Mets tenure — he missed the 2006 Mets postseason run due to shoulder surgery — and that will be one question that hovers over Scherzer’s time in Flushing: can he stay healthy over that span of the contract?“Max is a terrific competitor, highly intelligent and durable,” said Duquette, whose last GM job was with the Baltimore Orioles (2012-2018). “He’s leveraged a lot of his abilities and assets to be a great pitcher. Both Pedro and Max had similar years before joining the Mets. If you look at the WAR (Wins Above Replacement) that they both had prior to signing the contracts, both were over 5 (Martinez/5.5, Scherzer/6). “Max has shown he can pitch into his veteran years, it’s just a question of how long he can maintain that elite status.” Last season, Scherzer pitched 179.1 innings between the Washington Nationals and Dodgers, and was a cumulative 15-4 with 236 total strikeouts and a 2.46 ERA for the year. But aside from Scherzer’s sparkling resume — including his 2019 World Series ring with the Nationals — he brings a legendary work ethic and a veteran’s experience to the clubhouse, intangibles that add value to a monster investment. “With Max, he brings a relentlessness and an obsession to win,” said Eppler during Scherzer’s introductory video press conference. “Surrounding yourself with people like that, with high achievers, creates standards. And it’s infectious.”Duquette said Martinez had similar character traits that added value to the overall financial stake for the Red Sox and later, the Mets.“Pedro Martinez has charisma, and he’s always had charisma,” said Duquette. “He’s a very persuasive guy, and he has this aura about him.” Martinez also brought instant appeal to the Mets franchise, and his signing laid the groundwork for other premier players coming to Flushing. Shortly after Martinez’s contract was finalized, Minaya landed free agent Carlos Beltran for a seven-year, $119 million deal. After the 2005 season, slugger Carlos Delgado came to the Mets in a trade, setting up the 2006 playoff contender. Ultimately, that nucleus around Martinez didn’t yield a championship, and as a result, the club’s investment in Martinez might be viewed by many as a dud. Scherzer, for his part, is determined to make good on his Mets’ millions. “I really try to focus on being the best athlete as possible,” said Scherzer during the video call. “For me, being explosive, being able to jump, being able to lift heavy weight, run, sprint, I’ve got to be able to do it all if I want to be the best version of myself. For me it’s a total package: being durable, being out there, being explosive. I feel like that’s why I’m able to still pitch as well as I have, even at this age, and why I absolutely believe that I can still do this for another three years.”