Michael Fanone, a D.C. police officer who was badly injured during the January 6 attack on the Capitol, resigned from the force Monday and will join CNN as a contributor, a spokesperson for CNN confirmed to Forbes.  DC Metropolitan Police Department officer Michael Fanone is sworn in before testifying to the House  Select Committee investigating the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol on July 27, 2021 in Washington, DC. Fanone, 41, will join CNN next month as an on-air contributor, and will speak on topics related to law enforcement, the Washington Post first reported. Fanone, who was outspoken about the trauma police officers suffered during the attack and criticized lawmakers who downplayed the insurrection, told the Post that speaking out is “a continuation” of his service as a police officer. On January 6, rioters beat Fanone so badly that he suffered a concussion, fell unconscious and his heart briefly stopped, according to the Post. His badge and radio were ripped off of him, and other rioters tried to steal Fanone’s weapons and shouted “kill him with his own gun!” Fanone testified about his experience to Congress and has appeared several times on CNN—which he said has caused his fellow officers to shun him. Fanone returned to work in September after taking about eight months to recuperate from his injuries. In the year since the attack, several rioters have been sentenced to prison time. Last week, Robert S. Palmer received a sentence of five years in jail for attacking police officers, the longest punishment yet. A congressional committee investigating the attack has had issues with several Trump associates who have refused to testify after being subpoenaed. Trump’s former advisor Steve Bannon was indicted by a grand jury in November on two counts of contempt of Congress after failing to testify. The January 6 committee recommended former Department of Justice official Jeffrey Clark and Trump’s former chief of staff Mark Meadows be held in contempt as well. Rioter Gets Longest Jan. 6 Sentence Yet—5 Years For Attacking Police (Forbes) Jan. 6 Committee Recommends Holding Mark Meadows In Criminal Contempt (Forbes)