Michael Jackson performs on stage on his HIStory tour in December 1996. (Photo by Phil  Dent/Redferns)Adele continues to rule the Billboard 200 albums chart this week, as her latest full-length 30 earns a third stay atop the ranking of the most-consumed titles in the country. While there aren’t many debuts close to the summit, there are quite a few releases that reach impressive and notable milestones on the list, with some of the biggest musical stars of all time included in this roundup.Here are five albums that make big moves on the Billboard 200 chart this week.No. 27 - Harry Styles - Fine LineDown slightly from No. 22 to No. 27, Harry Styles’ sophomore solo album is still performing incredibly well for a title that is now several years old. The set, which helped prove that the former One Direction singer was not just popular, but a fantastic artist in his own right, has now lived on the Billboard 200 for 104 weeks, or exactly two years. The title is still selling, and recently fans of the pop-rocker sent the album cut “Falling” to the Hot Trending Songs chart.No. 38 - Taylor Swift - EvermoreSince releasing Evermore, Taylor Swift has given fans two more full-lengths—Fearless (Taylor’s Version) and Red (Taylor’s Version)—but that doesn’t mean listeners are done with her older collections. The second of two surprise releases, Evermore drops to No. 38 as it celebrates its first full year on the ranking of the most-consumed full-lengths in America. The Folklore sister release is Swift’s ninth effort to make it to 52 weeks on the tally.No. 44 - Queen - Greatest HitsQueen’s Greatest Hits compilation is never far from the upper reaches of the Billboard 200 these days, as fans across the U.S. can’t seem to stop buying and consuming the British rock band’s most successful release. This frame, it drops 20 spaces (due largely to a surge in popularity of Christmas-related titles), but the set does make it to a very special milestone in the process. Greatest Hits has now racked up an incredible 468 weeks on the ranking, or exactly nine years. That’s not a number that many projects have even approached.No. 126 - 2Pac - Greatest HitsAnother compilation titled Greatest Hits, another special week on the Billboard 200. 2Pac’s compilation hits 400 turns on the ranking, becoming one of a very small number of hip-hop efforts to do so. The pioneering rapper has been gone for many years now, but his music lives on, as fans in the U.S. continue to consume it in large enough numbers to keep it going strong, decades after it was first released. No. 186 - Michael Jackson - Thriller Michael Jackson fills two spaces on this week’s Billboard 200, one with a solo project and the other with the band that made him a household name. The Jackson 5’s The Jackson 5 Christmas Album dips below the highest half of the tally, while the legend’s Thriller appears further down on the list at No. 186. The set may disappear from the roster soon, but it will likely be back, as it never stays away for very long. This time around, Thriller reaches 500 weeks on the Billboard 200, becoming one of fewer than 15 titles to hit that number.