Almost 100 NBA players have entered the league’s Covid-19 health and safety protocols in December alone, ESPN reported Monday, forcing the league to draw up new rules so undermanned teams can sign replacement players, in an effort to avoid postponing more games as its slate of nationally broadcast Christmas Day matchups approaches. LAS VEGAS, NEVADA - AUGUST 13: Giannis Antetokounmpo of the Milwaukee Bucks gives a thumbs-up as he  leaves a game between the Bucks and the Minnesota Timberwolves during the 2021 NBA Summer League at the Thomas & Mack Center on August 13, 2021 in Las Vegas, Nevada. NOTE TO USER: User expressly acknowledges and agrees that, by downloading and or using this photograph, User is consenting to the terms and conditions of the Getty Images License Agreement. (Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images)Dallas Mavericks center Maxi Kleber entered health and safety protocols Monday, marking the 100th entry of the month, though three of those were repeat entries, according to ESPN reporter Baxter Holmes. Players enter health and safety protocols if they either test positive for Covid-19 or, in the case of the 3% of the league that remained unvaccinated as of November 30, come into contact with a Covid-positive individual. Some 97 of this season’s 113 player entries into health and safety protocols came in December, with at least 10 new entries reported per day in the last four days, according to Holmes.Some of the NBA’s biggest stars, including Brooklyn Nets forward Kevin Durant and Milwaukee Bucks forward Giannis Antetokounmpo, have been sidelined due to the outbreaks, with both teams slated to play national TV games on Christmas Day—a marquee ratings draw for the league. The NBA has been forced to postpone seven games in the last week due to Covid-19 outbreaks, impacting the Chicago Bulls, Detroit Pistons, Toronto Raptors, Denver Nuggets, Cleveland Cavaliers, New Orleans Pelicans, Philadelphia 76ers, Orlando Magic, Washington Wizards and Brooklyn Nets. The league and the National Basketball Players Association on Sunday agreed to allow teams to sign new players to 10-day contracts whenever a player tests positive for Covid-19, and teams will be required to sign at least one new player if two test positive, according to ESPN. These replacement players will not count towards a team’s annual salary mark or potential luxury tax payments. Last year, the NBA left the back half of its shortened 72-game season unscheduled in anticipation of potential Covid-related game postponements, aiming to avoid forcing teams to play an excessive amount of games in a short span should matchups be rescheduled. Such fail-safes were not put in place this season. As Saturday’s slate of nationally televised Christmas Day games approaches, eight of the ten NBA teams scheduled are missing key players.  Nets guard Kyrie Irving, who is unvaccinated against Covid-19 and has not yet played a game for his team this season due to New York vaccine mandates and the team’s preference to not play him in road games exclusively, was set to return following the Nets’ massive outbreak. Desperate for healthy bodies, the Nets aimed to bring Irving back as a part-time player, but his reintegration to the team was delayed when Irving too entered health and safety protocols upon required testing. Irving joins eight other Nets players in health and safety protocols, and will need to show five consecutive days’ worth of negative tests before he can rejoin the team.