New York State reported 21,027 positive cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the highest daily number since the onset of the pandemic, New York Gov. Kathy Hochul (D) said Friday. People wait in line to be tested for Covid-19 at a street-side testing booth in New York on December  17, 2021 (Photo by Ed JONES / AFP) (Photo by ED JONES/AFP via Getty Images)Out of 263,536 test results reported Thursday, nearly 8%, or 21,027, were positive cases, according to Hochul.The omicron variant is believed to be driving the increase in positive Covid cases, while severe cases were linked to delta, NBC New York reported.  The number of positive cases on Thursday surpassed 19,942 cases reported on January 14.Hochul said in a statement the spike was a reminder of the ongoing pandemic, urging New Yorkers to get vaccinated and a booster shot.70.7%. That’s the percentage of New Yorkers who had been fully vaccinated as of Friday morning, according to the New York State Department of Health. The percentage of fully vaccinated people in New York was much higher than the total percentage of fully vaccinated people in the U.S., which stood at 61.3%, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Dr. Jay Varma, a senior health advisor to New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio (D), wrote Thursday the jump in positive Covid cases suggested omicron evades immunity “unlike any variant before.” He went on to say vaccine and virus-induced immunity is believed to be more effective against severe disease, though that is subject to change. ABC 7 reported some people in the city had to wait hours to get a Covid test as the queue “stretched for blocks.” Breakthrough Covid cases have spilled over to Broadway where Tina – The Tina Turner Musical and Harry Potter and the Cursed Child canceled shows Wednesday due to breakthrough cases in their companies.New York Reports Over 20,000 Covid-19 Cases in Single-Day Record (Bloomberg)More Broadway Shows Cancel Performances Due To Covid Cases (Forbes)Record NY COVID numbers spark testing demand, close some schools in NYC (ABC 7)‘This Is a Whole New Animal:' NY Reports Highest Single-Day Case Total of Pandemic (NBC New York)New York state reports highest number of daily Covid cases of entire pandemic at more than 21,000 (CNBC)