Nicolas Feuillatte headquarters in Champagne, France. In a measure that has not been seen in Champagne in 25 years, a new cooperative group, Terroirs Et Vignerons De Champagne, has just been created, aiming to become one of the three most important players in the appellation. Coming into effect on December 31, 2021, the merger between Centre Vinicole-Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte (CV-CNF) and Coopérative Régionale des Vins de Champagne (C.R.V.C.), which produces Champagne Castelanu, was approved by each of their respective Extraordinary General Assemblies on Wednesday, December 15th. This newly formed cooperative brings together about 6,000 winegrowers (vignerons) and 7,413 acres spread over the Champagne region, accounting for almost 9% of the appellation’s total vineyard area. The C.R.V.C was established in 1963 and has 750 wine growers and 23 member cooperatives. It is now joining the largest union of cooperatives in Champagne through a merger-absorption operation. The goal of this large-scale merger is to become one of three major operators of Champagne and to offer an alternative to the negociant system by growing long-term relationships with its members. (A negociant purchases grapes, juice, or finished wines from small growers or wineries and bottles or vinifies them under their own label.) The creation of this group addresses the need for a new cooperative model as large-scale consolidation within Champagne has altered the business model in the 20th and 21st centuries. Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte Reserve Exclusive BrutThe leader in the sector is LVMH, which sells around 65 million bottles of Moêt & Chandon, Veuve Clicquot, Ruinart, and Dom Perignon annually. Pernod Ricard, purveyor of Perrier-Jouet and Maison Mumm, is the second largest producer of Champagne. The group’s potential capacity is 24 million bottles of Champagne annually, with a target of €300 million ($337 million USD) and a 5% market share within five years by accelerating the development of each business unit and implementing a new organization intended to reach these targets. The project was set into motion two years ago by CV-CNF President Véronique Blin and C.R.V.C. President Emmanuel Comyn. According to Ms. Blin, “The creation of this new group is a reflection of the continued consolidation of more and more players in Champagne as well as the need for a restructuring of the cooperative model. It is a response to the downward spiral in vineyard sales observed since the last crisis in Champagne in 2008 where the appellation saw the loss of 40 million bottles on the French market." Emmanuel Comyn stated, “This movement will make it possible to place additional value on the concepts of cooperation and sharing, two values that are more important than ever in today's world. By becoming one of the three major operators in Champagne, we now have the power to valorize the cooperative model in every single way. What an incredible opportunity!" Cristophe Juarez, Terroirs Et Vignerons De Champagne CEO. The Chief Executive Officer of the new group is Cristophe Juarez, who will assume his role on January 1, 2022, reporting directly to Véronique Blin. Juarez came aboard CV-CNF in 2017 as CEO, with the aim of developing the notoriety of the largest union of cooperatives in Champagne through a firm commitment to international expansion and premiumization.The name of the group, Terroirs Et Vignerons De Champagne, revealed during the Extraordinary General Assemblies, is intended to convey both human values as well as those of the land. According to Juarez, the group “brings together more than 300 employees in which brands play a central role while ensuring a balance of powers and responsibilities between upstream and downstream stakeholders.” It will be divided into four profit centers, each responsible for its own commercial revenues, economic performance, and development. These are Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte, Champagne Castelnau, Abelé 1757, and a “Services” center intended for services and collaborations with partners.