The European Union’s drug regulator approved the Novavax Covid-19 vaccine—long hyped as a highly effective alternative to the mRNA vaccines—for use in adults in the 27-nation bloc on Monday, a major step forward for a fifth coronavirus shot cleared to use in the region as the omicron variant spreads worldwide. In this photo illustration a silhouette of hands holding a medical syringe in front of the Novavax  logo displayed on a screen. (Photo Illustration by Cezary Kowalski/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images)The drug regulator, European Medicines Agency (EMA), granted conditional marketing authorization for the two-dose Novavax vaccine, which now just needs confirmation from the EU’s executive commission to start distributing the shots in the region.The EMA said studies showed the vaccine has about a 90% efficacy rate, and the agency’s human medicines committee determined it “met the EU criteria for efficacy, safety and quality.”The EMA’s authorization comes days after the World Health Organization approved the vaccine for emergency use, which allows additional countries to receive the shot under the Covax program, a United Nations-backed initiative to get vaccines to poorer countries.Novavax said earlier this month it is testing the shot’s potency against the omicron variant, and is developing an omicron-specific vaccine, if it is determined it is needed.If confirmed by the EU’s executive commission, the Novavax shot will become the fifth option for Europeans looking to get jabbed, in addition to vaccines from Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson.After the EMA grants authorization, the executive commission makes the final decision to confirm the vaccine for use. Novavax said the executive commission decision is expected “imminently,” and expects to start shipping vaccines to members of the European Union in January, Reuters reports. Novavax plans to file with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration by the end of the year.100 million. That’s how many doses of the Novavax vaccine the EU has ordered, with an option to order up to 100 million additional doses, the Associated Press reports.The Novavax vaccine was first approved for emergency use in Indonesia last month. Experts believe it could be a promising choice for people who have been hesitant to receive a jab so far, because it is not an mRNA vaccine, but is protein-based—similar to other vaccines which have been on the market for decades. The Novavax shot is also cheaper to make and easier to store than other vaccines, some of which need to be held at freezing temperatures as low as -130 degrees Fahrenheit. The EU approval comes as some countries in the region are battling the worst outbreaks of Covid-19 since the pandemic began, with the U.K. breaking the highest daily case record three days in a row last week, and the Netherlands imposing a new nationwide lockdown.WHO Grants Novavax Covid Vaccine Emergency Use Approval As Omicron Fears Deepen (Forbes)If Approved, The Novavax Covid-19 Vaccine Could Help Reduce Vaccine Hesitancy In The U.S. (Forbes)Novavax Covid-19 Vaccine Gets First Emergency Authorization In Indonesia—Here’s What You Need To Know (Forbes)