As some New Yorkers waited in hours-long lines to get tested for Covid-19 last week, outgoing New York Mayor Bill de Blasio announced new testing sites will be opening up amid a surge—particularly in New York—after nearly 20 sites were closed down last month.  A person has a COVID-19 test administered at a walk up testing site on December 15, 2021 in New York  City. De Blasio announced Sunday that eight testing sites will open in the five boroughs by Tuesday, bringing the total number of brick-and-mortar locations up to 30, a sharp decrease compared to the 54 that were operating in November, according to the New York Daily News. New York reported over 22,000 coronavirus cases Saturday, the third day in a row the state broke its record for the most daily cases reported since the start of the pandemic.De Blasio—whose final term as mayor ends December 31— said he “expect[s] these next weeks to see a very, very big surge in cases,” though he believes the omicron variant will be “a fast and temporary phenomenon.” 500,000. That’s how many rapid tests New York City said Thursday it would give out for free, according to the Wall Street Journal. Testing kits sold nationally in stores and pharmacies are scarce, and only some states are providing access to free ones. Lines for getting tested stretched longer than usual in Miami and other parts of South Florida, where cases are also on the rise, according to 7 News Miami, though Gov. Ron DeSantis said Thursday he does not plan to make changes to the state’s Covid-19 plan. Increasing coronavirus cases are hitting almost every cultural pillar of New York City. Saturday’s Saturday Night Live was televised without a live audience or musical guest in light of the increase in cases. The Rockettes canceled the remaining performances of their “Christmas Spectacular” on Saturday. Several Broadway shows called off productions last week because of cases within their casts and crews. The Brooklyn Nets have several players out because of Covid-19, and on Friday brought back unvaccinated player Kyrie Irving as a part-time player to play in out-of-state games, though he was quickly put on Covid-19 protocols, as was star Kevin Durant. SNL’s Final Episode Of 2021 To Be Televised Without Live Audience As Covid Cases Surge In New York (Forbes) More Broadway Shows Cancel Performances Due To Covid Cases (Forbes) Kyrie Irving Will Return To Nets As Part-Time Player (Forbes) Brooklyn Nets Stars Kevin Durant And Kyrie Irving Enter NBA Covid Protocols (Forbes)