The highly infectious omicron variant of the coronavirus accounted for 73.2% of new Covid-19 cases in the United States last week, making it the virus’ dominant variant, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported Monday.A healthcare worker conducts a COVID-19 test at a walk-up location in Farragut Square in Washington,  D.C., on Friday, September 3, 2021. (Photo By Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images)The proportion of omicron infections has jumped sixfold over the previous week, according to CDC figures.The delta variant accounted for 26.6% of last week’s infections, and other variants accounted for 0.1%.The omicron variant of the virus rapidly replaced the delta variant, which accounted for more than 99% of recent infections as of late November.This rapid growth is consistent with trends seen in other countries, CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky told the Associated Press.The omicron variant was first identified November 24 in Botswana and South Africa. Now, it is poised to become the dominant variant of the virus in Europe by mid-January, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced December 15. Some data suggests that vaccination and prior Covid-19 infection offer less protection against omicron than previous forms of the virus. However, vaccines remain effective at preventing severe illness or hospitalization, according to the CDC, and Pfizer and Moderna say booster shots make their vaccines more effective against omicron. Pharmaceuticals manufacturers including Moderna and Johnson & Johnson are currently developing omicron-specific vaccines.Dr. Rochelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and top  infectious disease expert Dr. Anthony Fauci testify before the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee July 20, 2021 on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC. (Photo by J. Scott Applewhite-Pool/Getty Images)“All of us have a date with omicron,” Dr. Amesh Adalja, a researcher at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, told the AP. “If you’re going to interact with society, if you’re going to have any type of life, omicron will be something you encounter, and the best way you can encounter this is to be fully vaccinated.” The omicron variant has not spread evenly across all regions of the U.S. While the omicron variant accounts for a whopping 96.3% of cases in the region comprising Alaska, Idaho, Oregon and Washington, it only accounts for 30.6% of cases in the region comprising Iowa, Kansas, Missouri and Nebraska, where delta remains the dominant strain. The omicron variant has not yet been detected in Montana, North Dakota, Oklahoma or South Dakota.Though some researchers have described the omicron variant as “relatively mild,” it remains unclear how the variant stacks up in terms of severity of symptoms, according to the CDC.“Omicron sweeps across nation, now 73% of US COVID-19 cases” (Associated Press)“Here’s How Covid-19 Vaccine Makers Plan To Tackle Omicron” (Forbes)