MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA - JANUARY 23: Rafael Nadal of Spain celebrates after winning a point during his  Men's Singles second round match against Federico Delbonis of Argentina on day four of the 2020 Australian Open at Melbourne Park on January 23, 2020 in Melbourne, Australia. (Photo by Daniel Pockett/Getty Images)Spanish tennis legend Rafael Nadal has tested positive for COVID-19 and his status for next month’s Australian Open is in question.“Hi all. I wanted to announce that on my return home after playing the Abu Dhabi tournament, I have tested positive for COVID in the PCR test that was performed on me when I arrived in Spain,” he wrote on Twitter in Spanish that was translated via Google Translate.“I am having some unpleasant moments but I hope that I will improve little by little. I am now homebound and have reported the result to those who have been in contact with me. As a consequence of the situation, I have to have total flexibility with my calendar and I will analyze my options depending on my evolution.“I will keep you informed of any decisions about my future tournaments! Thank you all in advance for your support and understanding.”Nadal, ranked No. 7 in the world, still has about a month before the start of the Australian Open Jan. 17 to complete his isolation and practice and prepare for the tournament, but he remains rusty.He had played just two matches in six months after a foot injury that ruled him out of Wimbledon and the U.S. Open. He lost last week to former world No. 1 Andy Murray, 6-3, 7-5, in the semifinals of the Mubadala World Tennis Championship in Abu Dhabi.“I think I did a lot of things well and other things, of course after a long period of time, I need to recover again, some things that when you're under competition come automatically," Nadal said after facing Murray for the first time since 2016.“Now I have to think more, or you don't have this extra time to make the right decisions.”“In general terms it has been a positive match, I even had my chances to win that second set.“It's just a positive start. I played even better than what I thought a few weeks ago.”Nadal remains tied with rivals Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer at 20 Grand Slam titles. Djokovic is on the list to play the Australian Open, but has yet to confirm he will be fully vaccinated as the tournament requires. Federer is out for the Australian Open and hopes to return sometime later next year.