SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA - DECEMBER 12: Drakeo the Ruler performs during Rolling Loud at NOS  Events Center on December 12, 2021 in San Bernardino, California. (Photo by Timothy Norris/WireImage)Hip-hop musician Drakeo The Ruler was stabbed and killed last night, (December 18) at a music festival in Los Angeles, CA, according to Rolling Stone, which received confirmation of the rapper’s passing from one of his representatives. He was just 28.The rapper was involved in some sort of altercation at the Once Upon a Time in L.A. concert, which took place at Banc of California Stadium. According to reports, paramedics were called after a violent incident, and they arrived on the scene at 8:40 PM. While Drakeo was still alive when he was taken to the hospital, he eventually succumbed to his injuries. Drakeo was on the bill for the Once Upon a Time in L.A. concert, a one-night event featuring several dozen acts spanning genres including hip-hop, rap, R&B and more. The event was to be headlined by stars like 50 Cent and Snoop Dogg, neither of whom ended up performing, as the stabbing took place before they took to the stage.The musician was well-known in the West Coast rap world, and his work had recently started to bring him to national prominence. Starting more than half a decade ago, Drake began dropping mixtapes, and he recorded and shared at least 10 different projects throughout his career. His output was hindered somewhat by stints in court and even prison, as he was previously charged with a number of crimes, such as murder. In 2021, Drakeo took his career to the next level with the release of his debut album The Truth Hurts, which arrived in February. The set was bolstered by the single “Talk to Me,” which benefited immensely from a feature by Drake. That tune appears to have been the rapper’s sole Billboard-charting hit, as it peaked at No. 8 on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 (essentially a 25-spot extension of the main Hot 100 songs chart) and No. 43 on the genre-specific Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs ranking.