Rapper Drakeo the Ruler died late Saturday after being stabbed in a backstage altercation at the Once Upon A Time in LA musical festival in Los Angeles where he was scheduled to perform, multiple outlets reported Sunday.Rapper Drakeo the Ruler performs onstage during Rolling Loud at NOS Events Center on Dec. 12, 2021  in San Bernardino, California. (Photo by Scott Dudelson/Getty Images)The Los Angeles Times reported that Caldwell might have been attacked by a group of people and that paramedics responded to a stabbing at the festival around 8:40 p.m.A source told the Times Caldwell was “pretty badly hurt” and later died from his injuries.No arrests have been reported, per the Times.Snoop Dogg and 50 Cent had also been scheduled to appear at the festival, which ended an hour early, according to Rolling Stone.Caldwell turned 28 on Dec. 1. The Los Angeles native first came to prominence in 2015 with the release of his first mixtape, I Am Mr. Mosely, and his artistry was defined by a “distinctly deadpan delivery and the dark humor that characterized his work,” according to Rolling Stone. Last year, Pitchfork described his album Thank You For Using GTL as “a remarkable feat: a stark rebuke of the justice system and an unparalleled achievement for a rapper and his producer.” Caldwell recorded it over the phone from jail, where he was awaiting trial on charges related to the 2016 killing of a 24-year-old man. He was acquitted of felony murder and attempted murder charges and was released last November after pleading guilty “to shooting from a motor vehicle with a gang enhancement,” Rolling Stone reported; Caldwell continued to maintain his innocence.Tributes to the artist have been pouring in since the news of his death, including from Drake, who collaborated with Caldwell on the track “Talk To Me.” The Canadian rapper posted on his Instagram stories on Sunday, saying Drakeo “always picked my spirit up with your energy.”Rapper Drakeo the Ruler Killed at Hometown Concert in Los Angeles (Rolling Stone)Drakeo the Ruler Dies at 28, Stabbed at Los Angeles Festival (Pitchfork)Drakeo the Ruler fatally stabbed at Once Upon a Time in L.A. concert, source says (Los Angeles Times)Drakeo the Ruler, West Coast Rapper, Is Killed at a Los Angeles Concert (New York Times)Rapper Drakeo the Ruler Dies After Backstage Stabbing at Los Angeles Festival (Vanity Fair)Rapper Drakeo the Ruler dies at 28 after stabbing at music festival (The Guardian)