Saturday NIght Live Christmas Show 2021There is no live entertainment institution in New York City better known than Saturday Night Live. SNL is where comedy was first reintroduced to television after the mourning period following the 9/11 attacks. It’s where a particular sector of the population catches up on news and current events. And, it has one of the fastest on-air responses to changes in the culture or the shifting political winds.Tonight, December 17, 2021, Lorne Michaels called an audible, stripped down the annual Christmas show, and went live from New York with only Tom Hanks, Tina Fey, Keenan Thompson, Michael Che and for the 5th time Paul Rudd as host. The house band was reduced to two players. Tonight’s show which was expected to be the usual Christmas spectacular turned out to be a mélange of pre-taped videos, reruns of Christmas segments from the past and one truly sloppy chair reading of Weekend Update in which the usually unflappable Tina Fey repeated stepped on her punch lines.SNL’s return to extreme Covid protocols comes at the end of a week in New York which saw the audience for Moulin Rouge sent home from their seats in the theater just minutes before curtain time due to an incidence of Covid within the show, while Hadestown, Hamilton, Tina, MJ The Musical, Mrs. Doubtfire and Jersey Boys similarly cancelled shows, and both the Radio City Rockettes and Alvin Ailey American Dance theater canceling the remaining shows in their run.Covid infections are increasing rapidly in New York, with today’s count at a pandemic record of 21,027. The speed at which live events are being canceled and postponed is stunning and disappointing after the careful way events resumed after going dark in March 2020 and only slowly resuming in late 2021. Nobody yet understands just what the Omicron variant means as a public health risk, other than it is astonishingly efficient at spreading.I was in New York this time last week. This is how Times Square looked on Saturday December 11th, just one week ago.Crowds in Times Square, Saturday afternoon 12/11/21There were swarms of people out, few of them masked, and most having a great time taking in the holiday spirit. The city was full, there were decorations everywhere and the world felt like it had mostly returned to how it was before the pandemic.Saturday was also the day in which Santa Con took place in New York, with packs of partying Santa clad revelers roaming the island and searching for love or bars.Santa Con partiers lined up at a bar on 3rd AvenueThe foot traffic was so heavy in mid-town that cross traffic was blocked in and around Rockefeller Center between 5th Avenue and Avenue of the Americas, creating a pedestrian oasis in which thousands roamed between staring at the sound and light show emanating from the façade of Saks 5th avenue, took pictures in front of the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree, or lined up to get into Radio City Music Hall to see the Rockette’s annual holiday spectacular.On Saturday I saw one of the last performances of the wonderful Lehman Brothers Trilogy in a sold-out theater, before heading down the island to Katana Kitten, perhaps my favorite bar in Manhattan and currently anointed 10th best bar in the world. Katana Kitten is where Masa Urushido creates his magic which includes his Amaretto Sour, their house favorite drink.  Today, Katana Kitten announced it too will remain closed for the foreseeable future because of the Covid surge.Katana Kitten taps outMy trip to New York was quick, in late Friday, then out on Tuesday. I was there in support of Steve Earle’s 7th annual John Henry’s friends benefit event for the Keswell school for autistic children. The three days I spent moving through the city were a wonderful throw back to how it used to be. Restaurants were open, stores were full, and the streets were filled with happy people there to experience the city in full holiday glow.I do remember being somewhat surprised at how densely people were packed everywhere. However, that seemed like the world had adapted to Covid and normalcy was in ascendence. That is why the speed at which the pendulum is reversing is so stunning. Monday night saw an audience of mostly XY seniors fill a room at Town Hall to see Bruce Springsteen play rock and roll in full exuberance. His third song was Glory Days, and as he started to play the audience simply sang the first verse. Springsteen is one of the best front men in the business. He smiled, encouraged the audience, and stayed off his mic until the chorus.Meanwhile, in a matter of only two more days Omicron accelerated and shows began to cancel. I remember clearly in early March 2020 how obvious it was that live entertainment would have to shut down. What was less predictable was the courage of leadership displayed by Michael Rapino, Dan Beckerman and others who simply decided to shut it all down. In a matter of a few days live events around the globe were postponed or canceled and the stages went dark for more than a year. This time there are vaccines available for those who are more interested in self preservation and political posturing – remember all your favorite talking heads on Fox News have been vaccinated as you watch then discussing science vs. freedom. We are all waiting to see whether Omicron is as dangerous as the prior variants. And, while our neighbors in Canada are already reducing capacity to 50% in their arenas, we are tip toeing back toward another decision in how to contain this spread. It may be that Adele is in front of everyone, with her requirement of being fully vaccinated and having a negative Covid test within 48 hours of entering her show. Ultimately, this might be how live entertainment stays open as variants continue to mutate and propagate. You won’t be able to go unless you have followed the protocol. Your choice whether you do or don’t get vaccinated. One option grants you access to everything, while the other condemns you to watching life through your television screen at home.I sure hope the world of live performance doesn’t have to go dark again. It sure would be great if we could all do our part to help. George Santayana said “those who cannot learn from history are condemned to repeat it.“ Springsteen singing Promised Land this week said “blow away the lies that leave you nothing but lost and brokenhearted.” Now, it’s up to you all. We are back at the fork in the road. What’s our choice – walk together down the path to beating this pandemic or divide by tribes and march toward perpetual chaos? Perhaps the answer lies here: every band has a drummer to keep all the players in synch. Somewhere, somehow, we need to replace the pontificators and prognosticators with someone in possession of common sense and the ability to keep a beat.  Every show reaches its apex when the audience is dancing together. That can’t happen when we’re all sequestered at home. Perhaps the political icon for 2022 should be David Bowie. He, better than most, understood the power of dance.For me, the trip to New York was nostalgic in that for one sweet moment in time the world appeared as it once was. It did that is until I got home and promptly tested positive for Covid.