Defending Dew Tour slopestyle champion Red Gerard was the final rider to go in the men's final on  Saturday. The 21-year-old put down everything he had, and was visibly overwhelmed when his efforts were rewarded with the day’s high score of 93.25 and a defense of his title.The heat was on from the beginning in the Dew Tour men’s snowboard slopestyle final on a chilly Saturday afternoon. After qualifiers were canceled due to weather, the entire field of 25 riders advanced to the final. With each rider getting only two runs, the format was a pressure cooker. Within that environment, viewers were treated to the absolute best outcome; sitting off the podium after his first run, defending Dew Tour slopestyle champion Red Gerard was the final rider to go, everything hanging on one last run. The 21-year-old put down everything he had, and was visibly overwhelmed when his efforts were rewarded with the day’s high score of 93.25. Defending Dew Tour slopestyle champion Red Gerard was the final rider to go in the men's final on  Saturday. The 21-year-old put down everything he had, and was visibly overwhelmed when his efforts were rewarded with the day’s high score of 93.25 and a defense of his title.There were 12 Americans in the final, and the U.S. went 1-2 on the podium with Gerard and fellow Summit County, Colorado, native Chris Corning. Sean Fitzsimons of Hood River, Oregon, finished in fourth place thanks to his strong second run and score of 89.50, the fifth-to-last of the day, which pushed Corning and Gerard to finish things off. “I cannot express enough how happy I am with our U.S. snowboarding squad right now,” Gerard said. “It’s insane how good everyone is riding, from Luke Winkelmann to Brock Crouch to Sean Fitzsimons to Chris Corning. We’re riding really good and it’s just fun to be a part of that.”Gerard’s first run, which featured an alley-oop front bluntslide to alley-oop backside disaster revert up top, a backslide lipslide to a switch backside 270 bring back on the rails, an alley-oop 720 on the first jump, a back 1260, and finishing with a switch backside 1620 landed him only in fourth place, causing some titters among the crowd and the Dew Tour announcers alike, who all felt it was worthy of a podium spot. Not many of the riders had put down a 16 on the final jump to that point, but the judges seemed to be downscoring Gerard for his 720. In the second runs, the momentum picked up considerably, with Canadian Mark McMorris a target in first place as the 21 remaining riders tried to best his score of 90.00.Then Corning came in on the penultimate run of the contest and threw down a 91.50 to push McMorris down to third and set the bar for Gerard. But Gerard knew exactly what he had to do on his second run to jump onto the podium. His 720 on the first jump—which the judges had said was the “style” jump but consistently seemed to favor bigger rotations despite their stated criteria—turned into a 1080, and he secured the win by repeating a near-perfect switch backside triple cork 1620 on the final hit. Defending Dew Tour slopestyle champion Red Gerard was the final rider to go in the men's final on  Saturday. The 21-year-old put down everything he had, and was visibly overwhelmed when his efforts were rewarded with the day’s high score of 93.25 and a defense of his title.“Really it was just that first jump, we really didn’t know how to snowboard on it,” Gerard said after the contest. “At first I went with the 720, and I just knew the second run I had to go 1080 on it, and that was the only thing I was really thinking about, taking it feature by feature and just trying to make it to the end.”When the judges announced the final score of 93.25, Gerard’s mouth dropped open. He fell backwards down onto the snow, taking it all in, speechless. “I can’t imagine being a judge and doing that; that last four or five runs was actually the most insane thing I’ve ever seen,” Gerard said after his win. “I’m honestly speechless.”Defending Dew Tour slopestyle champion Red Gerard was the final rider to go in the men's final on  Saturday. The 21-year-old put down everything he had, and was visibly overwhelmed when his efforts were rewarded with the day’s high score of 93.25 and a defense of his title.At the Dew Tour press conference Tuesday, Gerard said that 1620s were going to factor heavily into the competition. “Right now in slopestyle the name of the game is the 16s, putting that into your run and trying to flow it together,” Gerard said. “Bigger spins are definitely coming around.”Outside competition, the permanent park course at Copper Mountain is called Red’s Backyard and it’s modeled after the Silverthorne, Colorado, native’s own backyard course at home, where he dials his rail tricks.Needless to say, Gerard had difficulty putting into words how much it meant to him to defend his Dew Tour title in his own backyard. “I can’t; I really can’t describe it,” Gerard said. “I could be dreaming right now.”With the win, Gerard retains his spot as the top American in the World Snowboarding Points List and has almost certainly clinched his spot on the U.S. Olympic team with one more qualifier to go at the U.S. Grand Prix at Mammoth Mountain, California, January 6-9.