San Francisco Mayor London Breed on Friday declared a state of emergency in the city’s Tenderloin neighborhood, aiming to combat a rise in crime, drug use and homelessness there, days after she called for an increase in funding for police overtime to flood the area with officers.  SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA - MARCH 16: San Francisco Mayor London Breed (L) speaks during a press  conference as San Francisco police chief William Scott (R) looks on at San Francisco City Hall on March 16, 2020 in San Francisco, California. San Francisco Mayor London Breed announced a shelter in place order for residents in San Francisco until April 7. The order will allow people to leave their homes to do essential tasks such as grocery shopping and pet walking. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)The declaration lets city officials suspend zoning laws to create a “linkage” site that would offer shelter and mental health services to individuals suffering from addiction. Last year, a record 711 people in San Francisco died of drug overdoses, 26% of whom were Tenderloin residents. As of Wednesday, 592 people have died in the city as a result of accidental drug overdoses this year, according to the city’s chief medical examiner. The city also aims to combat an increase in theft, which House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) — who represents San Francisco — called “outrageous” on Wednesday. While certain crimes such as robbery, rape and burgary have actually decreased in San Francisco in the past year, theft, homicide and assault have all increased, with larceny theft up 18.3%.“We are in a crisis and we need to respond accordingly,” Breed said at a news conference Friday. “Too many people are dying in this city, too many people are sprawled on our streets.”On Tuesday, San Francisco’s Board of Supervisors approved the purchase of a building in the Tenderloin to house a supervised drug use center. The facility would allow users to take drugs under the watch of medical professionals, who will provide clean needles and mental health assistance. Such sites are illegal under federal law, but more local governments have explored the concept as overdose deaths continue to rise. Last year, Rhode Island became the first state to pass a law to allow what it called “harm reduction centers,” which will begin operating in March. New York City was the first in the country to implement officially authorized supervised drug sites last month, opening two sites in East Harlem and Washington Heights, respectively. Some 421 people have died of complications from Covid-19 in San Francisco in 2021, compared to the 592 who have died as a result of accidental drug overdoses.