The U.S. Senate confirmed more than 30 ambassadors and other administration officials nominated by President Joe Biden early Saturday morning after months of delay, then adjourned for the year, with Democratic leadership having given up on their goal of passing their ambitious Build Back Better bill by Christmas. Getty ImagesThe Senate confirmed ambassadors and district court judges after Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) held up the confirmation process, seeking to get the Biden administration to walk back its decision to drop sanctions on a natural gas pipeline from Russia to Europe that the Trump administration had opposed. The latest round of confirmations came after Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) agreed to vote on Nord Stream 2 before January 14, according to the Associated Press. The Senate voted 48-21 early Saturday to confirm Ram Emanuel, former mayor of Chicago, to be ambassador to Japan with support of senators who backed him for his experience in public service, having served as a former member of the House of Representatives and the first White House chief of staff in the Obama Administration; ambassadors to Spain, Vietnam and Somalia were also confirmed. The Senate then left for the holidays, delaying the passage of the Build Back Better bill and voting rights legislation that are among Democrats’ key priorities.Biden said in a statement Thursday that he was in talks with Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), who is a swing vote on the $1.75 trillion bill, saying Manchin “reiterated his support for Build Back Better funding at the level of the framework plan I announced in September.”Democrats are also expected to continue discussing how to modify the Senate rules for the passage of the voting rights legislation. Cruz has been pushing for the restoration of Trump-era sanctions on the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which is expected to be ready to start delivering natural gas from Russia to Germany next year. He believes the pipeline would increase Germany’s dependence on Russia for energy. Critics say the ambassadorial vacancies and other empty posts related to national security have damaged U.S. international relations. More diplomatic positions are empty almost a year since Biden took office compared to the same point in previous administrations, the Associated Press reported. Brushing aside such concerns, Cruz told CNN earlier this month: "I think the national security implications of Biden's surrender to Putin are massive, and it's why Russian troops are massed along Ukraine.” Senate confirms big slate of Biden ambassadors to end 2021 (Associated Press)U.S. Senate confirms ex-Chicago Mayor Emanuel to be ambassador to Japan (Reuters)GOP senators and Manchin in talks to work around Cruz's ambassador blockade (CNN)