COPPER MOUNTAIN, COLORADO - DECEMBER 16: Shaun White of Team United States competes in the men's  snowboard superpipe qualifier during day 2 of the Dew Tour at Copper Mountain on December 16, 2021 in Copper Mountain, Colorado. (Photo by Matthew Stockman/Getty Images)After placing fourth in Dew Tour men’s halfpipe qualifiers on Thursday to advance to Sunday’s final, Shaun White finished off the podium in seventh place with a score of 82.00.It was a blow to White’s standings in the World Snowboarding Points Lists (WSPL), which U.S. Ski & Snowboard uses to determine which riders from the U.S. are selected to fill the country’s Olympic quotas (up to four). White hasn’t made a podium in any of the three Olympic qualifying events so far, making the fourth and final opportunity at Mammoth Mountain in January crucially important. In arguably even bigger news, however, White also announced that this Dew Tour, his eighth, would be his last. Though White hasn’t announced an outright retirement from professional snowboarding, he has slowly been hinting in that direction. Earlier this week, in a sit-down interview with NBC's Craig Melvin that aired Wednesday, White said that February’s Beijing Olympics would likely be his “last run.” White’s first Dew Tour appearance was in 2008. Heading into Sunday’s halfpipe final, the top American in the WSPL was Taylor Gold, followed by Chase Josey, Chase Blackwell and Lucas Foster. White was eighth in the U.S. among Olympic hopefuls, though he will get points for his seventh-place finish. While the U.S. Olympic snowboarding team is mostly filled by specific objective criteria, U.S. Ski & Snowboard does have a discretionary selection. With only two runs in the qualifiers, White couldn’t put down a clean run on his first attempt and then managed to stomp what he wanted to do: back-to-back 1080s into the frontside 540 stalefish, setting up for the double McTwist 1260 and finishing off with an alley-oop 5.White tried to up the ante in the final. On his first run, he started out with a massive frontside 1440 into a double 1080, the frontside 540, and then into his signature double McTwist 1260. Then, White had a freak accident as his binding snapped on his third hit, and he couldn’t finish his run. On White’s second run, the broken binding had clearly gotten into his head, and he slipped out on his first hit as he tried to land the front 1440. On his third and final run—the only score that would count—White finally put a full run down, starting with a massive 1080 into a switch double 1080, the frontside 540, the double McTwist 1260, without quite getting the grab, and finished with a frontside 1260. COPPER MOUNTAIN, COLORADO - DECEMBER 19: Shaun White of Team United States competes in the men's  snowboard superpipe final during Day 5 of the Dew Tour at Copper Mountain on December 19, 2021 in Copper Mountain, Colorado. (Photo by Ezra Shaw/Getty Images)The riders are judged on progression, amplitude, variety, execution and trick difficulty, and the three riders who landed on the podium had those qualities in spades in their runs. White, who needed an 89.00 just to get onto the podium, earned an 82.00 to finish in seventh place. Yuto Totsuka of Japan took his third and final run right after White. Leading the scoring at that time was American Taylor Gold with a 92.00, while Totsuka was in second with a score of 90.00. Totsuka went absolutely huge on his final run, starting with a massive 1440 into a switch backside 1260, following it up with a switch backside 1080, backside 1260, finishing with a frontside 1260. Totsuka earned a massive score , largely due to his amplitude (15’1” highest, 12’7” average) and the difficulty of the two switch tricks. History was also made in the superpipe, as on the last run of the day, Japan’s Ayumu Hirano attempted and landed the first-ever frontside triple cork 1440. Hirano had previously landed the triple at training camp in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, as Ruka Hirano and Totsuka also had. It was just a matter of time until we saw it in competition. All three team Japan riders having the triple 1440 in their arsenals—not to mention a plethora of 1440s and switch backside tricks—has led many to speculate that they will sweep the podium at the Beijing Olympics. Aside from White, the American best positioned to prevent a Japan sweep is Gold, who finished second on the day off the strength of his very first run. It was a highly technical run that saw Gold go McTwist, frontside 1260 with a tailgrab, his signature double Michalchuk 1080 and then a switch McTwist as a setup trick for the switch 1080. After his final run, White threw his goggles and gloves to the fans. “I’m so happy to put one in. Thank you everyone for being here,” White told the crowd. “This is my last Dew Tour so thank you, Dew Tour. Thank you everybody here. I appreciate you!”