Paul Rudd in 'Ghostbusters: Afterlife,' Tom Holland in 'Spider-Man: No Way Home' and Tom Hardy in 'Venom: Let There Be Carnage'Spider-Man: No Way Home didn’t necessarily save theatrical moviegoing, since the industry cannot survive on surefire tentpoles alone. But the sheer size of the debut weekend, $260 million domestic and $600 million worldwide, showed definitely that the preordained blockbusters can still be expected to perform as well as they might have in pre-Covid times. Of course, we’ve arguably known that since A Quiet Place part II matched its pre-Covid tracking with a $57 million Fri-Mon Memorial Day weekend debut. And it was confirmed when Venom: Let There Be Carnage opened with $90 million in early October, followed by the $44 million launch of Ghostbusters: Afterlife just before Thanksgiving.  Those last two, along with Spider-Man, are Sony releases. That makes three strikes in a row for Sony’s big-budget, franchise-specific tentpoles, turning them into a (flawed) hero for the theatrical industry. If audiences liked the Odd Couple/queer romance-like sparring between Eddie Brock and Venom (both played by Tom Hardy in a gonzo-bananas go-for-broke star turn), then that’s what the sequel would deliver. In a season where every movie seemed to be a 2.5-hour downer which required homework, Let There Be Carnage was a gloriously stupid and unpretentious 95-minute goof-off. Ghostbusters: Afterlife was green-lit under the most cynical of circumstances, namely Jason Reitman directing a legacy threequel to his father’s biggest hits with the film being framed (intentionally or not) as a rebuttal to Paul Feig’s female-led reboot. Still, the film works as its own kid-friendly coming-of-age comic adventure, with a spectacular lead turn from Mckenna Grace and strong support from Carrie Coon and Paul Rudd, that played well to my “saw Ghostbusters once a few years back” kids.Spider-Man: No Way Home only exists because Sony prematurely stopped Sam Raimi’s Toby Maguire-led Spider-Man franchise in favor of a grimdark reboot. It only exists because Sony then tried to turn Andrew Garfield-led The Amazing Spider-Man into a de-facto Batman Begins and sold The Amazing Spider-Man 2 as a launching pad for their own Spidey-centric MCU before throwing in the towel and teaming up with Marvel Studios. There is a grim irony in Sony turning their most high-profile franchise stumble into a retroactive victory, but they capitalized on three generations of Spider-Man movie fans while also playing into existing generalized MCU fandom. While it’s filled with Easter Eggs and callbacks, Jon Watts’ sequel mostly remains focused on Holland’s Spider-Man, making sure that the twists, turns and reveals mean as much to him as they do to the audience.The net result is three straight big-budget franchise hits which leave their respective IP in a healthier and more optimistic place. Venom: Let There Be Carnage earned $212 million domestic, essentially tied with Venom’s $213.5 million domestic cume. The sequel, which has yet to play in China, has earned $498 million worldwide, which is pretty close to the first film’s sans-China $585 million global cume. That’s on a $110 million budget, meaning it doesn’t have to play in China (or approximate the first film’s absurd $269 million Chinese gross). Likewise, the $75 million Ghostbusters: Afterlife will probably end up tied with the $126 million cume of Ghostbusters: Answer the Call, while (with $174 million-and-counting) ending up below that $144 million film’s $229 million global cume. Since, it cost 48% less, 21% less worldwide is okay.We can only guess how high, give or take Covid variables and if/when it plays in China, Spider-Man: No Way Home will swing. With $253 million in three days for a mid-December opening, $725 million domestic may be the ground floor. And with $594 million worldwide, well, it may be less “Can Spidey top $1 billion?” and more “Can Spidey top the $1.45 billion gross of Frozen II?” Warner Bros. is coping with the results of their year-long Project Popcorn experiment, while Disney deals with comparatively underwhelming performances from Eternals ($400 million global, but just $161 million domestic and with poor reviews/buzz), Encanto (great movie, but likely to end under $200 million) and the formally-Fox likes of West Side, Story, The Last Duel and Searchlight’s Nightmare Alley. Sony has emerged as a late-breaking theatrical hero.It’s not all sunshine and roses. Resident Evil: Welcome to Racoon City was… not a great movie and has earned just $31 million worldwide on a $25 million budget. While Tom Rothman touted his commitment to the old-school theatrical window, Sony sold or leased a number of good-to-great movies (American Pickle, Greyhound, The Mitchells Vs. the Machines, Vivo, Hotel Transylvania: Transformania, etc.) to streaming services. Sony still has three of just four movies (including Bad Boys For Life) since 2019 to cross $200 million domestic. Spider-Man 3 and Venom 2 are two of four non-Chinese or Japanese releases since 2019 to top $500 million worldwide, alongside Universal’s F9 and No Time to Die. Peter Parker, Eddie Brock and Phoebe Spengler gives them three straight big-budget strikes in a row, giving Sony the good kind of box office turkey.