No Way HomeSpider-Man: No Way Home was a great film, start to finish. And by finish, I mean down to its post-credits scenes.Obviously to talk about any of this, we’re going to have to get into spoiler territory, which should have probably been obvious from the title. Like all MCU movies these days, Spider-Man: No Way Home has two post-credits scenes, one after the “splashy” credits, and one if you sit through the entire scroll as the last thing that airs before the lights come on.While I did enjoy the Tom Hardy Venom-misses-the-fight first post-credits scene that ties into the end of Venom 2: Let There Be Carnage’s post-credits scene, that’s not that I’m talking about. Rather, I’m referring to one of the only moments of the film that genuinely surprised me (given how much else was spoiled), that the second post-credits scene was a full trailer for Doctor Strange and the Multiverse of Madness, the first one that we’ve seen to date.In another world, I could imagine how a more “normal” post credits scene could have just been Doctor Strange approaching a woman doing laundry on a farm and then saying “Hi Wanda” as she turns around and we see it’s Elizabeth Olsen. Cut to black.No Way HomeBut instead, we got a full trailer for Multiverse of Madness, and frankly, this is something I wish we’d see more often from Marvel rather than the incredibly short and cryptic teases we usually get.The trailer showed us a lot. Besides Wanda, who looks to be a major part of the film, as promised, we also got our first glimpse at America Chavez, Miss America, and no doubt future member of Kate Bishop’s Young Avengers. We saw the return of Chiwetel Ejiofor’s Mordo. And then we got a glimpse of the person who might be the true villain of the film, a multiverse version of Doctor Strange himself. We have seen a version of this variant in What If…? in which Doctor Strange is corrupted by dark forces trying to prevent his wife from dying, and I’m wondering if that’s literally the character we see in What If…? or an even more evil version of that one, considering he was still something of a good guy by the end. Regardless, the point is showing a full trailer rather than a tiny tease felt like a good move here, and I wish this was something that Marvel would do more often. Granted, the stars sort of aligned with this one, given that Doctor Strange was both very integral to Spider-Man: No Way Home and his movie is the next big Marvel movie project coming out, but I think there are probably going to be more opportunities for something like this to come. I’d love to see more of this, and less a glimpse of one character saying one word before the lights come on. We’ll see what happens as more Marvel shows end and movies arrive. I was pleasantly surprised to see what No Way Home did here, and now I’m extra hyped for Doctor Strange as a result. Follow me on Twitter, YouTube, Facebook and Instagram. Subscribe to my free weekly content round-up newsletter, God Rolls.Pick up my sci-fi novels the Herokiller series and The Earthborn Trilogy.