Looking down at the Waldorf Astoria which stands on the full square block between 49th and 50th  streets, between Park and Lexington Avenues. Arno B. Schmidt is a veteran chef, educator, and writer who spent much of his career at the helm of some of the most iconic hotel kitchens around the world. As a consultant and author of more than a dozen books, his work has influenced generations of chefs. Now 90 years old, he penned his memoir, Chatting About The Waldorf-Astoria, just a few years ago. Having served as executive chef of the historic hotel for more than a decade, his book offers an insider’s view of what he calls the “glory days” of the hotel industry.Forbes.com spoke to Chef Schmidt about his lengthy career in the hospitality industry and his penchant for travel.Arno B. Schmidt at home, 2021Arno B. Schmidt: I grew up in Salzburg, Austria, in the ‘30s. Our family lived in a beautiful wing of a building just across the square from the house where Mozart was born.  My three brothers and I lived in a small apartment with my parents and grandmother. The wing of our building was constructed in the mid-1600s, so we only had cold tap water and shared a toilet in the hallway. The sole source of heat came from a ceramic wood stove in the living room.  As the second oldest of my siblings, I learned to cook working beside my mother. Winding up working in kitchens and then as a chef was probably due to a mix of my own curiosity and economic necessity. ABS: My school was bombed in October 1944. So when World War II ended in May 1945, I was itching to get out of our cramped quarters. My mother had subscribed to a culinary magazine that described glamorous hotels and steamships, which inspired me to see the world.  I was just 15 years old when my parents signed me up for a three-year apprenticeship contract as a cook (which wasn’t unusual at the time) with the Hotel Bellevue in Bad Gastein in the Austrian Alps.  After passing the government tests, I officially became a trained cook with various stints in Salzburg. However, my big break came when I got a job at the Grand Hotel in Stockholm, Sweden. A journey through kitchens in other countries followed, including a “Potato Cook First Class” job on the old Swedish ship, MS Gripshom. ABS: I visited New York City on Labor Day weekend 1951 and was smitten. My work took me to a catering company in Bogota, Colombia, where I applied for a Green Card that took me five years to obtain.  I arrived in New York City in May 1959, and I was incredibly lucky to get a job as Chef Poissonier (Head Fish Cook) at the Hotel St. Regis when it was still owned by Mrs. Astor and catered to high society and famous travelers. It was an era in the industry when ladies weren’t allowed into the King Cole Bar before 4 PM, and nobody screamed about it. In the Maisonette Nightclub, dinners were served from gueridons (trolleys). I would characterize our menu at the time as “New York Hotel French Cuisine.” But there were no advancement possibilities for me at the hotel, so Monsieur Castaybert, the Chef de Cuisine, helped me get a job as Executive Chef with Restaurant Associates, the most innovative restaurant group in New York at the time. After that, I held Executive Chef positions at other prestigious hotels and became known in the industry. ABS: I served as Executive Chef of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel from 1969 to 1979, one of the most gratifying positions I have held. The hotel was the apple of Mr. Conrad Hilton’s eye. It was often called the “unofficial palace” of New York because so many society functions and diplomatic dinners were held there. During its bicentennial year, just about every Queen, King, or head of state hosted a dinner at the hotel.  Famous people resided in the Waldorf Towers year-round or stayed for extensive lengths of time. But when the Empire Room reopened as a nightclub, there was no more leisurely dining. About 300 guests had to get served before the show. The challenges did not intimidate me. I was ideally suited for the role because of my past experiences in so many kitchens. The crew sensed I was one of them, yet there was a respectful distance. Being able to speak grammatically correct Spanish helped tremendously. After a decade at The Waldorf, I was ready to move to the other side of the kitchen door. From 1980-1983, I worked as food and beverage manager for Mrs. Helmsley at the Harley Hotel on 42nd Street, and then food and beverage director at The Plaza Hotel operated by Westin.ABS: At the Waldorf, I supervised more than 100 cooks. The key to effectively managing culinary workers, cooks, and chefs is gaining their confidence. If the crew believes you are fair, appreciate what they are doing, and aren’t meddling unnecessarily in their duties, you will earn their respect. At the large unionized hotels where I worked, I learned to step back and try to understand why certain things were being done in a certain way. For example, should I tell the orange juice man who has been squeezing oranges every morning for twenty years to change his routine? If things are working well, don’t try to fix them simply because you think you know better.  ABS: The Culinary Institute of America (CIA) was born in New Haven before moving to its current Hyde Park campus in 1970. When the school was adjacent to the Yale campus, Jack Rosenthal was its President. He was a prominent figure in gourmet and wine circles and wanted me to bring the (then) provincial school to the attention of New York City culinary sponsors. He hired me to teach and then offered me a permanent staff position.After working at the Waldorf, I also taught food and beverage management courses as an adjunct at New York University and other colleges. Many of the books I’ve written are geared to chefs, supervisors, and teachers. ABS: There are still many elegant restaurants in the city and luxurious cruise lines operating around the world. It is expected that people patronizing these venues have good table manners and know how to treat service staff with respect and generosity.  I am afraid that during this pandemic, a whole generation is growing up used to eating purchased food from a box with a plastic fork and drinking coffee from a paper cup. I recently went to a fairly elegant bar in the city and ordered a beer; I was expected to drink it from the bottle and had to ask for a glass. ABS: Longevity is connected with genes and lifestyle. I never smoked, grew up without sodas, had very active manual jobs even as an executive chef. After retirement, my late wife Margaret and I purchased properties in New Jersey that kept me in the woods, and I enjoyed renovating rental properties.  I now live in a landmarked apartment building in Jackson Heights, Queens, one of the most integrated places in the U.S. that offers a vibrant blend of different cultures. I still read the “bad news” in The New York Times each day and do the crossword puzzles. Although my gait isn’t as steady as it once was, I manage to walk to the local market. Sometimes, I take the subway into the city. ABS: Travel opens your mind. Working in eight different countries, I learned to appreciate people with other languages and customs. After my retirement, Margaret (also a travel buff) and I took two or three cruises every year, including one through the Northwest Passage. We visited over 100 countries.I still travel. Last month, I just visited my younger brother in Salzburg for a belated 80th birthday celebration. I had absolutely no fear of traveling abroad because I was vaccinated—although it didn’t protect me from the mass confusion in terms of rescheduled flights. If travel were more manageable for me now, I would love to follow the Silk Route and also Tibet, perhaps, the Caucasus region between the Black and Caspian Seas, and Iran.Note: This conversation has been lightly edited and condensed for clarity. 