If the Green Bay Packers can lock down the NFC's No. 1 seed, they won't have to leave friendly  Lambeau Field until the Super Bowl.Cold weather.Extra rest.And 80,000 crazies screaming for the home team.That’s what the Green Bay Packers are gunning for. And they took a huge step in that direction in Week 15.The Packers edged the Baltimore Ravens, 31-30, improved to 11-3 and maintained the No. 1 seed in the NFC. Tampa Bay (10-4), which was the No. 2 seed, lost at home to New Orleans and slipped to the No. 3 seed.Dallas (10-4) is now seeded second, while Tampa Bay, Arizona (10-4) and the Los Angeles Rams (9-4) round out the top-five seeds.The No. 1 seed gets homefield advantage and a first round bye. The other six playoff teams all play on wildcard weekend.“I think it’s important because homefield advantage is everything and especially playing in Lambeau, the elements are definitely in our advantage,” linebacker De’Vondre Campbell said. “In a lot of ways because the reality of it is nobody wants to play football in the cold. If you have a choice, you want to play in warmer weather, so it’s definitely to our advantage.”Green Bay earned the No. 1 seed a year ago, defeated the Rams in the divisional round, then lost to fifth-seeded Tampa Bay, 31-26, in the NFC title game. But make no mistake, the Packers want nothing more than to ensure that the road to the 56th Super Bowl goes Lambeau Field.“That’d be fantastic to get another week (off),” Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers said. “And then the fact we can win two home playoff games and make it to the Super Bowl, that’s what we had last year. “We beat a good Rams team and then couldn’t finish it off against Tampa. It would be nice to get another opportunity to do it again at home. Everything is right in front of us. We’ve got to win the next three and then get a chance to relax.”Here’s a look at the teams fighting for the No. 1 seed and their remaining schedules:Schedule: vs. Cleveland, vs. Minnesota, at DetroitOpponent’s combined record: 15-24-1Opponent’s winning percentage: .388Analysis: The Packers should be a substantial favorite in each of their final three games. Cleveland’s Week 15 game was moved from Saturday to Monday, meaning the Browns now have two fewer days to prepare for their Christmas Day game in Green Bay. Minnesota is fighting for a playoff spot, while the Lions are battling for the top pick in the draft.Green Bay understands the importance of homefield advantage and should be highly motivated down the stretch.Schedule: vs. Washington, vs. Arizona, at PhiladelphiaOpponent’s combined record: 22-18Opponent’s winning percentage: .550Analysis: The Cowboys are ahead of Arizona and Tampa Bay thanks to a better conference record. Dallas has the toughest remaining schedule of the teams fighting for the No. 1 seed. But the Cowboys have won three straight games and allowed just 14.3 points per game in that stretch.Schedule: at Carolina, at New York Jets, vs. CarolinaOpponent’s combined record: 13-29Opponent’s winning percentage: .310Analysis: The defending Super Bowl champions suffered a brutal 9-0 loss to New Orleans Sunday, snapping their four-game winning streak. And while Tampa Bay has the easiest remaining schedule among teams battling for the No. 1 seed, catching Green Bay for the top seed now seems highly unlikely.Schedule: vs. Indianapolis, at Dallas, vs. SeattleOpponent’s combined record: 23-18Opponent’s winning percentage: .561Analysis: The Cardinals are in the middle of a free fall, losing two straight games, including a 30-12 setback to lowly Detroit on Sunday. It won't get any easier for Arizona either, as Dallas has won three straight and both Indianapolis and Seattle have won two straight.Schedule: vs. Seattle, at Minnesota, at Baltimore, vs. San FranciscoOpponent’s combined record: 27-27Opponent’s winning percentage: .500Analysis: After losing three straight in the middle of the season, Los Angeles has righted the ship and won two in a row. The Rams’ schedule down the stretch is daunting, but they remain a team no one would want to play in January.