Chef Hillary Sterling of Ci Siamo with her cast-iron focacciaThe best thing for the future of Big Apple restaurants is the city’s new mayor, Eric Adams, who actually likes the industry and delights in dining out. He’s the happy antithesis of his lazy, nasty, utterly inept, chip-on-the-shoulder predecessor, Bill de Blasio, who took grim joy in making life unnecessarily more miserable for eateries during the pandemic. Adams, who wants his city to thrive again, is also well aware of how critical this industry is to such a renaissance. Fine dining in places with traditional and excitingly creative offerings was a crucial attraction for tourists of all kinds, not to mention one of the things that made Gotham a magnet for the ambitious. Our stellar team of discerning tasters—Forbes’ chief content officer, Randall Lane; Forbes contributor Richard Nalley; preeminent media maven Monie Begley; and brothers Kip and Tim—herewith unveil their list of where you can enjoy the city’s most savory comestibles.‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎It’s no surprise that vegans and vegetarians love the original offerings here, but meat eaters are wowed as well.Venice itself would be envious of the ways in which the variety of food is prepared.Reopened and as popular as ever with the Midtown lunch crowd—and the crowd is correct when it comes to the food served.Its outdoor dining area is one of the most attractive in the city, and the desserts are beyond sublime.Cognac is king, but the mix of French classic dishes and bistro fare makes for a royal experience.A visit to this spot is like being transported to Strasbourg. The food is as good as any you’ll find in eastern France.No one has a beef with these unmistakably stunning steaks.Basque in the beauty of this particular cuisine.A fabulous waterfront view, including the Brooklyn Bridge, that’s matched by fabulous fish fare.Creation of wunderkind chef Flynn McGarry, whose terrific tasting menus are internationally inspired. The menu is a colorful pamphlet with a history of each dish.‎‎The place to go to get the epitome of American fare.‎‎A mouthwatering modern Middle Eastern menu that has patrons returning again and again.Incredibly creative Italian renderings.An over-the-top-fantastic “food vacation.” Setting is Paris formal, with mirrors and carts galore. What’s French for “delicious indulgence”?Scrumptiously creative cuisine that impressively combines influences of Peruvian and Japanese cooking.Sensational Spanish-inspired fare.Here you can personalize your perfect dessert with an array of cookies, cakes, ice creams and pies that will send you on a sweet, heavenly high.Great steaks, and the flan really has its fans.Outstanding Italian offerings, especially the special pastas, at this longtime Upper East Side gem.A complete, fully catered omakase dinner delivered to your home. A maître d’ and chef arrive with a suitcase or two and serve up a mouthwatering 15-course tasting menu of sushi and sashimi, concluding with a delectable dessert.Designed as an authentic Italian trattoria, this place feels like it’s been here forever but courageously opened last April. Fare is authentically excellent and is accompanied by hip music.‎‎Thai food for a culinary adventure.Unique dining menu creatively blends flavors from around the world. That goes for the cocktails, too.