Aaron Rodgers and the Green Bay Packers survived a scare from the Baltimore Ravens Sunday and  prevailed, 31-30.The Green Bay Packers are still the NFC’s No. 1 seed.But just barely.The Packers held off a ferocious comeback attempt by the Baltimore Ravens and notched a 31-30 win Sunday. Baltimore scored with just 42 seconds left to pull within one, but its two-point attempt failed when Darnell Savage and Eric Stokes helped break up a pass for tight end Mark Andrews.Green Bay won the NFC North for a third straight year, improved to 11-3 and remained the No. 1 seed in the NFC. Here’s the good, bad and ugly from Green Bay’s win:AARON RODGERS: Green Bay’s future Hall of Fame quarterback has been surgical in recent weeks. And Sunday was no different.Rodgers threw three touchdowns without an interception. And along the way, Rodgers threw his 442nd career touchdown pass, which tied Brett Favre for the most in Packers history.Rodgers threw a 3-yard touchdown to Davante Adams late in the first half that tied the game at 14. Then he hit Aaron Jones with a 9-yard TD midway through the third quarter to put the Packers in front, 21-14.Then with 12:54 left in the game, Rodgers tied Favre’s franchise TD mark after firing an 11-yard TD pass to Marquez Valdes-Scantling.“I knew right away, and I was like, wait, did we break the record, or did that tie it?,” MVS said. “ That’s what we were talking about when everybody was around me, that’s what we were talking about. Because that’s just a crazy accomplishment, and I definitely kept that football. “That one’s not going anywhere. If it was broken, I would have gave it to him, but that one’s mine. That’s just a great accomplishment for him, and I just love that I’m a part of it.”Rodgers finished the night with 268 passing yards and a 132.1 passer rating. And over the last four games, Rodgers has thrown 13 TDs without an interception.MARQUEZ VALDES-SCANTLING: Green Bay’s mercurial fourth-year wideout had his best game of the year with five catches for 98 yards and a touchdown.MVS, who will be a free agent after the season, entered the day with just 20 catches for 329 yards and two scores this year. In many ways, though, he could be the key to Green Bay’s offense this postseason.Valdes-Scantling runs as well, if not better, than any wideout in football. And with the Packers lacking a true No. 2 wide receiver, everyone in the organization knows what MVS can mean to the offense.“Marquez is a special human being,” Rodgers said. “He really has a great personality. I could feel confidence-wise, he’s been a little up and down. To be able to have him come out tonight and play the way he played, catch the record-tying touchdown, I think was very apropos of football and the beauty and the redemption stories that happen every single week.”RUSHING OFFENSE: The Ravens entered the game ranked No. 1 in the league in rushing defense, allowing just 85.5 yards per game. Baltimore also ranked sixth in yards allowed per carry (3.9).The Packers controlled the ball and the clock at times with a run game that finished with 96 yards. Aaron Jones led the way with 58 yards on 13 carries and AJ Dillon had a touchdown run.Green Bay also did it with a makeshift offensive line that was missing four preferred starters.THIS AND THAT: Tight end Josiah Deguara matched his career high with three receptions. … Inside linebacker De’Vondre Campbell had a team-best 10 tackles, a sack and a tackle for loss. … The Packers scored on five of their eight drives. … AJ Dillon recovered an onside kick late in the game after Valdes-Scantling botched an on-sider last week. ... Packers coach Matt LaFleur is now 37-9 is his three seasons with Green Bay (.804).DEFENSE: Working against backup quarterback Tyler Huntley and an injury-ravaged Ravens team, Green Bay’s highly regarded defense should have had a field day. Instead, Baltimore had a big night on offense.Huntley threw for two touchdowns and ran for two more as Baltimore piled up 354 total yards. The Ravens also ran for 143 yards and finished with 24 first downs.“He’s a good player,” Packers inside linebacker De’Vandre Campbell said of Huntley. “A lot of people don't realize it because he’s playing behind Lamar Jackson, but he’s a really good football player. “He made some plays and that’s what happens in this league. People are going to make plays. Just got to keep on pushing. I think we did a good job of not letting it get to us like, ‘Oh, he’s extending drives.’ We just had to keep fighting to the end.FIRST QUARTER: Green Bay trailed, 7-0, after the first quarter and has been outscored, 71-34 in the first period this season.On Sunday, the Ravens led, 6-2, in first downs and 120-35 in total yards after the first quarter. Baltimore also ran 21 plays to Green Bay’s seven and won the first quarter time of possession, 10:54-4:56.SPECIAL TEAMS: Green Bay special teams units had a legendarily atrocious night against Chicago last week. The Packers weren’t quite as bad Sunday, but once again, they bordered on abysmal. Green Bay’s special teams blunders Sunday included:• Packers’ cornerback Isaac Yiadom running into punt returner Devin Duvernay, who had called for a fair catch.• Jonathan Garvin was flagged for offensive holding on a kickoff that forced the Packers to start at their own 16.• Baltimore hit a pop-up kickoff in the third quarter and the Ravens nearly recovered. Green Bay’s Garvin came up with the loose ball, but the Packers started on their own 12-yard line.• Green Bay’s punt team was hit with a delay of game penalty with 2:30 left. Corey Bojorquez then followed with a substandard 40-yard punt.“Certainly the special teams isn’t up to the standard and we’ve got to keep continuing to find ways to improve,” Packers coach Matt LaFleur said. “We’ve got to coach it better, we’ve got to execute better.”DARNELL SAVAGE: Green Bay’s safety has had a solid year. But Savage was no match for Ravens standout tight end Mark Andrews.In the first half alone, Andrews had six catches for 95 yards and two touchdowns working primarily against Savage.Late in the first quarter, Andrews broke away from Savage and hauled in an 8-yard TD near the back line in the endzone. Then midway through the second quarter, Andrews worked out of the right slot and beat Savage to the back left corner of the endzone for a 9-yard TD.The Packers used cornerback Kevin King on Andrews much of the second half and he had more success than Savage. Still, Andrews finished the night with 10 catches for 136 yards and two touchdowns.