BOYDS, MD - JUNE 29: A Nike Merlin official NWSL match soccer ball sits on the grass field during  the National Womens Soccer League (NWSL) game between the North Carolina Courage and Washington Spirit June 29, 2019 at Maureen Hendricks Field at Maryland SoccerPlex in Boyds, MD. (Photo by Randy Litzinger/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images)The NWSL amateur draft, held on Saturday, concluded a week that brought much of what we know about the 2022 season into focus.Naomi Girma, the star Stanford defender, went first overall to the San Diego Wave, upending much of the conventional wisdom about how the expansion team would use its top pick. “I’m so excited to be starting my professional career at Wave FC,” Girma said. “It’s an honor to be selected first and join a team with such incredible coaches, staff, and players. I can’t wait to get started and give as much as I can to Wave FC and the San Diego community.”: Most mock drafts had Jaelin Howell going first, but instead it was Racing Louisville selecting the Florida State product second overall.“Jaelin’s someone we were hoping to get. It’s a huge addition,“ said James O’Connor, Racing’s executive vice president of development. ““When you look at Jaelin’s quality and range of passing, there are so many factors that make this a big plus for us. We’re absolutely ecstatic to get her. I think it’s just great for the whole organization.”Rounding out the top five, the North Carolina Courage took Virginia Tech’s Emily Gray third, Racing Louisville selected USC’s Savannah DeMelo fourth, and UCLA’s Mia Fishel went fifth to the Orlando Pride. It was a busy first round for Orlando, who also added Duke’s Caitlin Cosme at the tenth pick, and Julie Doyle of Santa Clara at 11."I'm feeling really well. We were able to go out there and grab a couple of players here that we feel really strong about," Orlando Pride General Manager Ian Fleming said. "A sequence of events that took place that led to us being able to take a player that we thought we'd have to jump up higher to get and, in the end, we're really satisfied with being able to strengthen in a few different positions."The entire list of 50 NWSL draft picks can be found here. As to when you can see them play, the NWSL released information about its 2022 season shape on Saturday as well.“Players are set to report to a six-week preseason camp beginning on February 1, before kicking off the 2022 season on Saturday, March 19, with group play for the NWSL Challenge Cup,” the league said in a press release on Saturday. “The Cup will feature three groups of four teams, playing double round-robin matches, semifinals and the NWSL Challenge Cup Final on Saturday, May 7, broadcast on the CBS Television Network and available to stream live on Paramount+.”At the conclusion of the Challenge Cup, a 22-game regular season will follow, with true fairness and balance built in — 11 games at home, 11 on the road, one against each NWSL opponent. The additions of Angel City FC and San Diego allow for this 12-team circuit to follow this rhythm.We even have a date for the NWSL championship — the weekend of October 28-30.