PHOENIX, ARIZONA - DECEMBER 16: JaVale McGee #00 of the Phoenix Suns high fives Cameron Payne #15  after scoring against the Washington Wizards during the first half of the NBA game at Footprint Center on December 16, 2021 in Phoenix, Arizona. The Suns defeated the Wizards 118-98. NOTE TO USER: User expressly acknowledges and agrees that, by downloading and or using this photograph, User is consenting to the terms and conditions of the Getty Images License Agreement. (Photo by Christian Petersen/Getty Images)It shouldn't come as a surprise that a team that made last year's NBA Finals would do well the season after. However, the Phoenix Suns are doing better than just well. They're currently the league's best team, ranking third in the NBA in defense and sixth offensively. That's not by accident.During last season's Finals, similar to the Milwaukee Bucks, Phoenix had just six players receiving over 20 minutes per game. This isn't uncommon, as coaching staffs usually stretch their best players in crucial series, as to maximize their winning odds.This season, the Suns have leaned into depth. 10 players are currently averaging over 15 minutes per game, and the team's two stars - Devin Booker and Chris Paul - are receiving 31.9 and 32.1 minutes respectively, which on any given night can dip below the 30-minute threshold if the Suns are winning.Third-year forward Cameron Johnson and veteran center JaVale McGee are two of the most productive players coming off the bench, with Johnson providing floor-spacing (40.9% from three-point range) and McGee grabbing every board in sight (7.5 of them in just 16.0 minutes), while also scoring at the high rate of 10.9 points, converting on 65.9% of his shots.The presence of Johnson and McGee allow Phoenix to stay competitive during games where their primary players are either unavailable, or simply not producing. During Booker's recent absence due to a hamstring injury, the Suns won five out of seven games and often in convincing fashion.Cameron Payne (10.5 points, 3.4 assists) and Landry Shamet (8.3 points, 38.8 3FG%) strengthen the backcourt depth, offering crucial production for the team to stay afloat when the starters are sitting.This level of depth has afforded the Suns the luxury of not having to go all-out at all times to squeeze out wins. Booker is averaging 22.9 points, the lowest total since his second year in the league. Paul, while accustomed to playing less in the regular season, has lessened his on-court responsibility burden, at least offensively. The All-Star point guard is averaging a career-low 14.4 points, focusing instead of setting up teammates than scoring.(He does so spectacularly by averaging a league-leading 10.1 assists per game.)Despite the strong production coming from their bench this season, it isn't inconceivable that head coach Monty Williams once again tightens the rotation should the Suns make a return to the Finals. But that doesn't mean expanding the rotation doesn't serve a purpose.For Phoenix, the longer they can wait before having to unleash Booker and Paul into high-minute responsibilities, where both see drastic increases in shot attempts, the better. Going into the postseason armed with a small army of role players could help them seamlessly move on from the first round without any increase in minutes to their starters.However, that's not to insinuate the starters can't handle their roles. This is by no means a question of a lack of ability.Mikael Bridges is leading the team with 34.3 minutes played per game, with his defensive impact holding steady virtually throughout. Deandre Ayton is back in a larger offensive role, netting 16.8 points per game, while grabbing 11.3 rebounds and hitting 61.7% of his shot attempts.Finally, there's Swiss army knife Jae Crowder who - as he always does - offers switchable defense and long-range shooting (35.5% from three on 5.3 attempts).This isn't a mission of holding Suns starters back. It's a mission of keeping them all as healthy and fresh as possible for what the organization has to believe will be a long postseason.The Suns are currently projected to have the second-highest odds of making the Finals in the Western Conference per FanDuel Sportsbook. Those are the expectations being put on this team. After dropping four games in a row in last year's Finals, the Suns are likely eager to get back there and try to make things right.That starts with leaning into their best weapons, which right now are being saved for when they need them. The Suns are effectively playing the long game, and so far, the results speak for themselves.