HOUSTON, TEXAS - NOVEMBER 29: Tre Mann #23 of the Oklahoma City Thunder controls the ball against  the Houston Rockets at Toyota Center on November 29, 2021 in Houston, Texas. NOTE TO USER: User expressly acknowledges and agrees that, by downloading and or using this photograph, User is consenting to the terms and conditions of the Getty Images License Agreement. (Photo by Carmen Mandato/Getty Images)When the Oklahoma City Thunder selected Tre Mann No. 18 overall in the 2021 NBA Draft, they knew a young dynamic scorer was being added to the roster. “A couple of players I look up are Steph Curry and Damian Lillard,” said Mann in a rookie introductory press conference in July. “Those guys are able to shoot off the dribble. I just try to take a little bit from everyone’s game and add it to mine.”While he’s far from being an elite scorer like Curry and Lillard, Mann is starting to show flashes of just how good he could be offensively one day. Coming out of college, the Florida product was known for getting buckets. In fact, his signature move was a step-back triple. The shiftiness Mann plays with allows him to create space for jumpers, but also opens up the paint as he blows by defenders. Standing at 6-foot-5, the rookie has the quickness and athleticism to score from all three levels in the NBA at a young age. Like many rookies in this league, earning minutes on the court takes time. Through the first nine games of the Thunder’s season, Mann played just over 50 total minutes. In a crowded Thunder backcourt, he got the opportunity to play in the G League to get reps and build confidence. To this point in the season, Mann has played in seven games for the OKC Blue, averaging 15.0 points, 4.6 rebounds and 3.9 assists in 26.9 minutes per contest. “I feel like it was a big part of gaining confidence in myself,” said Mann following a recent G League performance. “Showing that I can be competitive on defense and make plays on offense.”This experience has proven valuable for the 20-year-old guard, as he has shown his worth and ultimately looked more comfortable on an NBA floor. Over his last eight NBA games, Mann has seen an increased role with the Thunder, averaging 10.3 points in 23.1 minutes per game while shooting 38.7% from deep on 3.9 attempts. The scoring from Mann tends to come in bunches, as he produces points from all over the floor. Whether it’s a smooth 3-pointer or an aggressive attack at the rim, he’s shown the ability to score at any level.With that in mind, 3-point shots have been key for Mann. On the season, 39.5% of his shots are from beyond the arc, as he’s now Oklahoma City’s third-best 3-point shooter. Through 19 NBA games, he’s hit a triple in 14 of those games and has notched four games with multiple 3-point makes.The consistency from deep has been impressive for the rookie, as he’s converted on 37.1% of his 3s in the G League and 37.3% at the NBA level.Mann has also been effective near the rim, using his craftiness to generate shots in the paint, where he’s converted on 73.9% of his shot attempts within three feet of the basket.It’s difficult to project the type of production Mann would generate in an even larger role, but he’s averaging 16.3 points and 4.1 rebounds per 36 minutes this season.Not only has Mann flashed his scoring ability with a 19-point game already this season, but he’s also had outings with upwards of seven rebounds and four assists during his rookie campaign. For being known as a scorer, Mann clearly has the ability to become more than that. In the eyes of the Thunder, Mann’s longevity and ceiling at the NBA level comes down to defense. They know he can develop into an elite scorer, but in the modern NBA you have to be solid on both ends of the floor.“The duration of his career will come down to that end of the floor,” said Thunder coach Mark Daigneault in late October.Although he’s not a huge guard, he is 6-foot-5 which gives him the potential to defend multiple positions. The better he gets on that end the floor, the quicker he becomes a more important piece of the OKC rotation.It’ll take time, but being around defensive anchor Lu Dort and studying his game for the foreseeable future could be extremely valuable for Mann’s defensive development. It’s certainly something the rookie will be focused on improving through the early stages of his NBA career.On the season, Mann has averaged 7.4 points and 1.8 rebounds in 16.4 minutes per game. He’s gotten two starts early in his career, but has proven to be a valuable scorer off the bench.Down the road when the Thunder are back to competitive for playoff positioning, Mann could prove to be a player that could end up being a Sixth Man of the Year type performer.