Tim McGraw and Faith Hill in the new '1883' series and McGraw Tour 2022His hit song “Humble And Kind” is not just a sweet melody when it comes to the man we call Tim McGraw. When speaking with the passionate actor and country music superstar, he seems to live and breathe those positive words with his naturally engaging and welcoming presence as we discussed his new television series 1883, which is now streaming on Paramount Plus.“I wasn’t looking for anything to do,” McGraw reveals to me about his journey finding this project alongside his fellow superstar wife Faith Hill. “I wasn’t looking for a film, wasn’t looking for a series for sure, anything like that. When we read the script, Faith and I both read the script, it was magic. It was so well-written.”McGraw goes on to say that he and Hill have been big fans of the hit Yellowstone series since the very beginning, a modern storytelling starring Kevin Costner that is set in the same fictional universe as 1883, with McGraw’s project being a prequel origin story. McGraw continues about his admiration for this original tale saying, “When something’s that good, as an artist, that’s what moves you. That’s what makes you want to do stuff. It’s not about looking for a project or doing a project just to be doing a project. It’s about something that viscerally moves you and that’s what this script did.”On 1883, McGraw plays James Dutton, the man who initially founded Yellowstone Ranch. Early on in this new series, it becomes very clear that Dutton is a man that will protect his family from the outside world at any cost, a mentality McGraw says he relates to all too well.Tim McGraw and Isabel May in '1883'“I have three daughters and a wife and grew up with two sisters and my mom. There’s that sort of protection mode that I have instinctively anyway. To be able to bring that to life on-screen and put that into extenuating circumstances was hard to turn down and something that I felt like I could put myself into pretty easily.”This will not be the first time McGraw has stepped into the on-screen shoes of Dutton. What began as just one brief stint on Yellowstone has blossomed into fully developed characters on 1883, thanks to the working relationship between McGraw and Yellowstone co-creator & 1883 creator Taylor Sheridan.“We had done a flashback scene in Yellowstone last year. I didn’t know Taylor - he called and wanted to know if I’d be interested in being on the show. I said I’d love to but I don’t want to be just some singing cowboy. I said if there was something interesting, I would love to do it. He said, I have an idea, give me a week. He called back a week later and he came up with the idea of me playing the original Dutton who founded Yellowstone Ranch in 1880s and doing a flashback sequence of it. To me, that was very interesting. Then it turned into Alright, you’re going to have a wife. You think Faith would like to play it? I asked Faith and she said she’d love to. We sort of did that and he called me a couple of months after that and said I showed the scenes to the studio and I think that they want to buy a prequel to Yellowstone based on these scenes. Are you and Faith in? We were like of course we’re in! Then when he started sending the scripts, it was a no-brainer. We were floored by it and we were just driven to do it.”McGraw and Hill bring their undeniable chemistry to the roles of James and Margaret, a family journeying west with their two children during an era in America faced with piling conflict and hardships. Now married for 25 years, McGraw shares with me what it was like working on-camera alongside his real-life wife. Faith Hill, Audie Rick, and Tim McGraw in '1883'“There are times when the cameras just disappear for us, but it can be difficult as well because we are married and we do bring that chemistry to the table. At the same time, we don’t want people to look at Tim & Faith - we want people to look at James & Margaret. So, there’s a fine line of carrying the chemistry that we have together as a married couple and erasing who we are as famous people to become these characters. It’s a really fine line that you have to walk and navigate and hopefully, we’ve been able to pull that off and tweak our relationship just enough to where it turns into Margaret & James’s relationship and not Tim & Faith’s.”Also starring Sam Elliott, Isabel May, LaMonica Garrett, and even strong appearances by Tom Hanks and Billy Bob Thornton, McGraw has nothing but praise for his entire ensemble of dedicated actors on 1883. “From literally a role that has one line to the biggest roles in the show, everybody brought their A-Game. It’s just a great troupe of actors. I think people will be blown away by the characters and the actors of this show.”1883 is not the only project currently on McGraw’s plate. Last month, he released a new holiday single “Christmas All Over The World” and he is preparing for his 17-city national “McGraw Tour 2022” which kicks off in February in San Antonio. I asked McGraw if his loyal country fans should expect more of his older hits or more of his newer music on this latest tour. “It’s going to be a mixture. That’s the toughest thing when you’re putting together a tour, especially when you’ve been doing it as long as I have, is figuring out what songs are going to make the setlist and what songs aren’t because you can’t get them all in and you’re not going to get everybody’s favorite song in. So you just try to create an atmosphere that flows well and hits the high points for most people. There’s always going to be somebody that walks away and gets disappointed because they didn’t hear the one song they wanted to hear but you can’t play them all, so (laughs) that’s the toughest thing is putting together a setlist but this will have a combination of almost a career span of my music.”Being a top recording artist for more than three decades now, I wondered how McGraw’s mindset and priorities have evolved within the music business, as the way money is made and the way people access music today has changed significantly over these past 30 years. “Certainly the business model has changed quite a bit in music because when I first started out, it was about selling records and you sold a lot of records. That was on the same playing field as touring. The economics were pretty close to the same. Now, it’s not about selling records anymore because nobody really sells records and when you do, it’s not that much money involved in it. So, it’s about touring where money is made. And with Covid, it’s really changed that dynamic as well because you want to do it as safely as you possibly can and you want to do it in a responsible way. So, you’re constantly shifting, you’re constantly looking at the landscape, and trying to figure out the best way to go about it.”As we wrapped up our conversation, I left McGraw with a light-hearted question, wondering what his plans are in the McGraw household this Christmas. “The couch, football, and the fireplace. That’s going to be my world for a couple of weeks.”