SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA - JANUARY 31: (EDITORIAL USE ONLY) (SOUTH KOREA OUT) In this handout image  provided by The Sports Seoul, TOMORROW X TOGETHER attends the 30th High1 Seoul Music Awards on January 31, 2021 in Seoul, South Korea. (Photo by The Sports Seoul via Getty Images)As Christmas quickly approaches, one of the biggest names in the K-pop space returns to the main albums chart in America with their latest release. While the title didn’t become the same sales success they’ve landed in the past, it does help the band behind the new set break out of a tie with several other South Korean groups and re-establish themselves as one of the most beloved and popular acts from that region in the U.S.Tomorrow X Together’s Japanese EP Chaotic Wonderland debuts at the fairly lowly position of No. 177 on this week’s Billboard 200, but it’s not so much the spot it lands in that’s important. The seasonal title is the fifth project from the South Korean band to reach the list of the most-consumed EPs and full-lengths in the U.S., and that fact helps them stand out from almost every other musical act from their home country.With five Billboard 200-charting titles to their credit, Tomorrow X Together breaks out of a tie with three other South Korean vocal groups to claim the second-most hit releases. Before this week, TXT (for short) was tied with Exo, NCT 127 and Twice, who have all landed on the all-encompassing tally with four different projects. Leading the way among all K-pop acts is BTS, and the septet is in a very distant first place. The globe-dominating boy band has already pushed 14 different releases to the Billboard 200, with half a dozen having broken into the top 10 and all but one of those rising to the summit.Tomorrow X Together first hit the Billboard 200 in 2019 with The Dream Chapter: Star, which only lifted as high as No. 140, but it would prove to be just the beginning for the K-pop titans. In 2020, they greatly improved their standing on the chart when Minisode1: Blue Hour peaked at No. 25. Throughout 2021, the band has debuted a trio of studio efforts on the ranking, including their first top 10 smash, The Chaos Chapter: Freeze, which topped out at No. 5. Just months before they collected that win, they stalled at No. 173 with Still Dreaming.