LONDON, ENGLAND - JANUARY 11: Son Heung-Min of Tottenham Hotspur takes on Jordan Henderson of  Liverpool during the Premier League match between Tottenham Hotspur and Liverpool FC at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium on January 11, 2020 in London, United Kingdom. (Photo by Justin Setterfield/Getty Images)Tottenham Hotspur welcomes Liverpool tomorrow for an intriguing Premier League match on a weekend that has already seen several games cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Here are five things to know about the match. Spurs lacks match practiceThe last match Spurs played was the victory over Norwich City on December 5. Since then, a Covid outbreak at the club forced cancellations of league matches against Leicester City and Brighton, as well as the Europa Conference League match against Rennes. At the time of writing, this match is still going ahead tomorrow. But, given how quickly things can change, there is still a chance it will be cancelled. On Monday, Premier League clubs will meet to discuss how to deal with the rising number of outbreaks. Whatever the outcome, Spurs will have some fixtures to somehow fit in to a congested match calendar.Conte needs time on the training groundThe cancelled matches mean Spurs has three games in hand over most other clubs and is currently only four points behind Arsenal in fourth place. However, with a busy fixture list over the Christmas period, the team needs to catch up quickly. Manager Antonio Conte is known for wanting as much time as possible with his players on the training ground to instill his ideas and meticulous patterns of play. With various players and staff unavailable due to Covid, his plans have been severely disrupted. While most have apparently returned from isolation, fitness is still an issue and, given the choice, Conte would have wanted more time to work with the entire squad, not only those who haven’t contracted Covid.Liverpool is rampantLiverpool goes into tomorrow’s match in impressive form. The club has won its last six in the league, scoring 17 times. The only reason it is second, a point behind Manchester City, is because City has also been on a near-flawless run. Before the cancellations, Spurs had put together a nice run and is unbeaten in its last four league fixtures, winning the last three. Liverpool, though, is a far bigger test. A glance at the league table shows the difference between these sides. Liverpool has scored 48 goals – the highest in the league – while Spurs has managed just 16.Salah is on fire, Kane is notMohamed Salah is arguably in the best form of any player in the world. The Egyptian forward has already scored 15 Premier League goals and made nine assists this season. Every time he gets the ball he looks dangerous. And, he is being well supported by Diogo Jota, who has found the net nine times in the league.LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND - JANUARY 19: Mohamed Salah of Liverpool celebrates after scoring his team's  second goal during the Premier League match between Liverpool FC and Manchester United at Anfield on January 19, 2020 in Liverpool, United Kingdom. (Photo by Michael Regan/Getty Images)For Spurs, star man Harry Kane has just only league goal so far. While he has started to show signs of coming back into form in the past few weeks, he needs goals to get back to his best.   These teams have very different objectivesLiverpool is trying to keep pace with Manchester City and stretch its three-point lead over Chelsea in the title race. Those three teams look clearly better than the rest this season.Spurs would be delighted with a top four finish and a return to the Champions League. It is a task that didn’t seem possible before Conte arrived. Now it might not be so far-fetched.The form is with the away side. Spurs hasn’t beaten Liverpool since 2017 and has lost the last seven meetings between these two teams, including the Champions League final two years ago. A draw tomorrow would be a great result for Tottenham.