U.S. service members are prohibited from “liking” or reposting extremist content on social media, the Pentagon said Monday, part of an anti-extremism campaign launched after dozens of people with military backgrounds were accused of participating in the January 6 Capitol riot.Colonel Don Campbell with members of the United States Army Fourth Infantry Division stand in front t of the American flag prior to the home opener between the Anaheim Angels and the Texas Rangers at the Ballpark in Arlington on April 9, 2004 in Arlington, Texas. The U.S. Fourth Infantry, was instrumental in the capture of Saddam Hussein. (Photo by Ronald Martinez/Getty Images)Pentagon officials announced Monday a set of rules aimed at curbing extremism, including a ban on supporting the overthrow of the government and on rallying or fundraising for an extremist group.Though the policy doesn’t greatly alter what is prohibited, it lays out far more detailed rules about what is and isn’t allowed on social media, defense officials told the Associated Press, which first reported the new rules.Under the new rules, a commander must determine that a service member “actively participated” in an extremist activity for that service member to be held accountable.Though relatively few service members have been involved in proven cases of extremist activity in the past year, the risk may be growing, senior defense officials told the AP.Trump supporters clash with police and security forces as people try to storm the US Capitol in  Washington D.C on January 6, 2021. - Demonstrators breached security and entered the Capitol as Congress debated the a 2020 presidential election Electoral Vote Certification. (Photo by Joseph Prezioso / AFP) (Photo by JOSEPH PREZIOSO/AFP via Getty Images)After veterans and current military personnel were charged with participating in the Capitol riot, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin spearheaded a campaign to combat extremism in the military. Recent attacks by white supremacists and other extremists are not “some sort of blip that will completely reverse itself in any sense,” Army veteran William Braniff, who leads the University of Maryland’s National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism, told Defense One. A December 1 report by the Department of Defense Office of Inspector General criticized the lack of standard protocols for reporting extremist activities, a problem the new rules seek to address.118. That’s how many individuals with military backgrounds have been charged in connection to the Capitol riot, according to a University of Maryland study published Friday. Of these participants, 107 were no longer serving in the military at the time of the riot, and many had been separated for more than a decade. A total of 458 people with military backgrounds have been connected to extremism-motivated crimes since 1990, according to the study.Sometimes, the task of countering extremism falls to individuals. After Alaska state Rep. David Eastman (R), a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, was revealed to be a member of right-wing anti-government group the Oath Keepers, 69 of Eastman’s fellow graduates published a letter condemning his “dangerous lies” and urging him to resign. Eastman did not resign, telling the AP he was grateful that Alaskans could elect their own representatives rather than “those outside Alaska… choosing our elected representatives for us based on their values and what passes for journalism in some parts of the country.”Military anti-extremism efforts are undercut by a skewed definition of what qualifies as extremism, argued Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) and 11 other U.S. senators in a December 1 letter to Austin. The lawmakers argued Bishop Garrison, head of the Pentagon’s Countering Extremism Working Group, has “a long history of rabid anti-conservative bias” as exemplified by a tweet in which Garrison equated supporting former President Donald Trump with supporting racism.“Pentagon issues rules aimed at stopping rise of extremism” (Associated Press)“At Least 458 U.S. Crimes Tied to Extremism Involved Veterans, Active Duty Troops” (Defense One)