DETROIT - JANUARY 12: Electric Avenue on the show floor during press preview days for the world  automotive media North American International Auto Show at the Cobo Center January 12, 2010 in Detroit, Michigan. The 2010 North American International Auto Show (NAIAS) opens to the public January 16th. (Photo by Bryan Mitchell/Getty Images)Now that President Biden signed the $1.2 trillion infrastructure package into law, where will the money go? Much of it will head to the Department of Energy — to improve grid operations and get more electric vehicles on the road. Washington is fractured. But general agreement exists on the need to rebuild America’s roads, bridges, and rails. The goal is to better compete in the 21st Century and endure a succession of extreme weather events. To that end, the policies are geared toward spurring investments in modern technologies to make the grid greener — and able to handle all those new EVs.  “In the aggregate, the large (power) projects will have the biggest impact on decarbonization,” says Peter Londa, chief executive of Tantalus, at an event sponsored last week by the United States Energy Association. “The large wind farms and the large solar plants have a larger impact. But I think they will also take a lot longer to deploy.“The decentralization of generation and the distributed energy resources will have a greater impact day-to-day — what we are witnessing with extreme weather events that can devastate a utility’s infrastructure. It is a tool in their arsenal to restore services as quickly as possible,” Londa continued at the event, where this reporter was a panelist. Tantalus helps utilities manage external factors — everything from enduring hurricanes and earthquakes to backing up renewable energy sources with energy storage or other electric generators. That is done, in part, by collecting and managing data and then making that information visible to grid operators. To that end, the bipartisan infrastructure law provides monies to regulatory offices to ensure that utilities have the resources they need to minimize outages. It also includes funding to create more onsite generation, battery storage, and localized microgrids — known as “distributed energy resources.” Collectively, those assets can alleviate the strain on the primary grid during peak periods or bad weather. Microgrids, for example, export power to specific circuits. That makes it highly unlikely that the whole system can go down. In other words, Hurricane Ida that wiped out Entergy Corp.’s entire delivery system in August would have had less of an impact if it had used more distributed energy resources.Get to WorkAn American Airlines plane is seen through power lines in Arlington, Virginia on August 13, 2021. -  The US Senate recently passed a bipartisan infrastructure bill that would spend $65 billion to improve the reliability and resiliency of the nations power grid, and would spend USD 55 billion on water and wastewater infrastructure. (Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS / AFP) (Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/AFP via Getty Images)“We have already done a substantial amount of work modernizing our existing grid and we have one (project) that could potentially get launched within the next year,” says Justin Driscoll, interim president and chief executive of the New York Power Authority, a publicly owned utility, at the webinar. “So any funding (is welcome) that could be deployed from the infrastructure bill that would improve communications and support that modernization work on the existing grid.” The utility aims to generate 70% clean energy by 2030 and 100% by 2040. To get there, it expects to build more wind and solar plants. But it also needs more long-distance, high-powered transmission wires — lines that it would expect to get built using its existing rights-of-way. President Biden’s objective is to produce 80% clean energy by 2030 and 100% by 2035, which he says will create a $23 trillion economy. Power companies contribute about 39% of all CO2 emissions in the United States. The president’s pending Build Back Better plan would reward utilities that make the switch to cleaner generation — everything from deploying renewables and battery storage to building nuclear plants and carbon capture and storage. To be clear, getting to net-zero does not mean the abolition of fossil fuels; instead, it means offsetting their emissions. Today, 20% of all energy used in homes and industry is electric. But that number could potentially be as high as 60% in 2050. The electric grid must therefore be modernized or expanded to manage the increased demand. From where will it come? Four times more renewables and an electric transport sector, responsible for 30% of all CO2 releases.What is more urgent: electrifying the grid or decarbonizing the economy? Can the grid handle such immense demands on it? And if we are going to electrify everything, can we do it with clean energy resources? Consider, for example, that the infrastructure bill targets $7.5 billion to build out 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations by 2030. “We need to build on what works today,” says Katie Jereza, vice president of corporate affairs at EPRI, during the webinar. “Longer-term, we need to drive innovation.” Biofuels, biogas, and energy efficiency are available today — not to mention wind and solar assets, she says. That will enable the United States to meet its 2030 decarbonization goals. “We've also launched an electric vehicle infrastructure initiative focused on developing the tools and resources needed for this rapid expansion of fleet charging infrastructure.” Better than NothingKern County, CA - March 23: LADWPs Pine Tree Wind Farm and Solar Power Plant in the Tehachapi  Mountains Tehachapi Mountains on Tuesday, March 23, 2021 in Kern County, CA.(Irfan Khan / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images)The infrastructure package is separate from President Biden’s $1.75 trillion Build Back Better plan, dealt a serious blow today when it lost support in the U.S. Senate. Environmentally speaking, the proposal would have accelerated and accentuated what the infrastructure law will do. But is that enough? Supporters of the president’s climate agenda say that decarbonization is a heavy lift and that the federal government has the muscle to do it. And there’s a renewed urgency: the United Nations just said that greenhouse gases hit record highs in 2020. But Senator Joe Manchin, D-W.V., says the market is already setting the pace and that any more government intervention is overkill. Consider: nearly 40,000 megawatts of new capacity is coming online this year, says S&P Global Platts. About 80% of that will be renewables.Manchin’s actions are largely political — a Democrat who won in a state where Donald Trump and Republicans have dominated in recent years. But his policy positions may hurt West Virginia where coal has been the heartbeat of the economy. The Build Back Better model would give money to carbon capture and storage facilities — investments that would give coal a chance of survival. West Virginia is also older and sicker. If the country can cut CO2 releases by 50% by 2030, it would avoid $1.7 trillion in health and environmental damages, says Energy Innovation. The race to net-zero will also create 500,000 to 1 million new energy jobs across the country in the 2020s alone, with nearly every state benefiting, adds the Andlinger Center. Manchin, in his mid 70s, is more concerned about his next election — not the long-term benefits of investing in infrastructure. The Build Back Better plan “may not necessarily get you to 100% net zero. But it does move the ball forward on decarbonization (and) electrifying more parts of the economy,” says Andrew Shaw, partner in the Dentons law firm. The bill, for example, would provide tax incentives for energy storage so that more wind and solar get built. Further, “I’ve never seen so much support on both sides of the aisle for nuclear,” he adds — all to preserve the existing fleet while also developing next-generation units and small modular reactors. The global community is relying on greener fuels and electric transport. That’s an unyielding trend — one that will lead to favorable regulations and eco-friendly innovations. The just-passed infrastructure bill tries to kick-start that movement, but the Build Back Better proposal would light a fire under it. While the measure’s fate appears doomed, the nation is still driving into a Brave New World. However, if the political potholes are not patched, the journey will be long and expensive.