President Joe Biden preparing for a different sort of storm. (Photo by Joshua Roberts/Getty Images)Several reporters and commentators recently have expressed wonder at public polls. They show so much pessimism and yet the data shows a strong economic recovery.  A popular media explanation is hardly surprising.  It contends that the people are ignorant of what is really happening.  In one sense, this interpretation is perplexing.  After all, people interact with the economy daily. Whether they know the statistics and press releases or not, they cannot miss reality. But in another sense, this media interpretation stands to reason. Accusing the public of ignorance makes the writer feel superior and, as the saying goes, “in the know.” Perhaps there is a better explanation for this difference between polls and the statistical picture:  the data looks back, while the public is looking forward.To be sure, Americans are pessimistic about economic prospects, and have become more so in just the last few months. A recent Harris poll reported that some 56% of Americans see the economy on the wrong track, a big change from last June when a similar poll indicated that only some 39% felt this way. Also according to Harris, 57% of Americans see the economy as “weak,” up from 43% last June. The Gallop index of public confidence recently registered a value of -25, a huge difference from last spring’s positive reading. Some 40% of Americans say that this is a bad time to buy a home, the highest percentage since the early 1980s, when inflation was running high, and the economy was in recession.And as the journalists point out, the data does look good. Despite supply-chain problems, the economy created almost 6 million jobs between last January and November, some 700,000 in just the last two months. Unemployment as a percent of the workforce has dropped from 6.7% a year ago to 4.2% in November. Hourly earnings have risen at almost a 5% annual rate, a pace not seen in years. New home sales have jumped 7.5% in just the last two months. Orders at manufacturers have risen some 22% from year ago levels, and lists of unfilled orders continue to expand, pointing to more activity immediately ahead. American checking accounts, according to the Federal Reserve (Fed), have risen some 50% from year-ago levels, while household net worth has risen by a like amount since the early days of the pandemic.People can see these immediate positives. They are clearly willing to take advantage of them. The average American’s confidence that he or she can easily find a job in the present environment is apparent in the so-called quit rate – the percent of workers leaving their job voluntarily. It is at an all-time high. But looking beyond the immediate situation, people also see plenty about which to worry.There is, for instance, the new Omicron variant of Covid. Not unreasonably, people fear that it might spark a new round of lockdowns and quarantines. It has already halted much international travel. The average American has also learned in the past couple of years that politics in Washington and state capitals could impel such lockdowns and quarantines even if the new variant does not require them.And then there is inflation. For months, as prices generally, but especially for groceries and gasoline, have soared, Washington dismissed the pain as “transitory.” While official Washington remained insouciant, people saw the cost of living outpace even robust wage gains so that most found themselves worse off than they were a year ago. And because the most severe price increases have occurred among essentials, the hardship has fallen most on the least well off in society. The average American certainly is not ignorant of these economic facts.Still more capable of creating public concern are uncertainties about policy responses to the inflation. Since Washington now has admitted that the “transitory” description was misplaced, people know that some change in policy is likely. The Fed has already announced a gradual end to its practice of putting money into the economy through direct purchases of bonds on financial markets, what the Fed calls “quantitative easing.” If the inflation remains persistent, interest rate hikes will follow. The average Joe or Jane may not quote easily from economic theory, but he or she can sense the direction of things and how the turn in Fed policy will make credit scarcer, make bank loans and mortgages more expensive, and accordingly restrain economic growth. People are also aware that even as President Biden’s “Build Back Better” bill waits on a vote in Congress, the inflation will demand for less expansive and generous fiscal measures from here on out.From this perspective, the average American appears less ignorant and perhaps somewhat more insightful than the condescending explanations offered by some – though not all – media outlets. There is, as a consequence, no contradiction between the flow of statistics and people’s attitudes about the economy.  People are well aware that things are going well enough, for now. They also know that further out on the time horizon prospects look a lot more problematic. The reporters and many commentators are looking at one set of facts.  The public is looking at a broader picture, something a good deal more important, too.