New Zealand's Zoi Sadowski-Synnott won the women's slopestyle final at Dew Tour on Saturday morning  for her first ever Dew Tour podium. The weather was finally clear on the slopestyle course Saturday morning of Dew Tour—and so was the new hierarchy in women’s snowboarding. New Zealand’s Zoi Sadowski-Synnott, 20, absolutely owned the course in the women’s final with the high score in each of her three runs, which also saw her progress the style and difficulty of her tricks to retain her top spot, going 88.50, 95.00 and 97.75. Perhaps even more impressive is that Sadowski-Synnott had hardly any time to dial her run prior to the women’s final, to which the full field of 15 riders advanced, as women’s slopestyle qualifiers were canceled due to weather and practice time was hard to come by. In her monster third run, Sadowski-Synnott showed us that she wasn’t willing to rest on her laurels despite already holding top place. After a technically perfect rails section, she threw down a switch backside 900 on the first hit, the biggest trick of the day, into a front 720 and finishing with a backside 9.On a day when most of the women struggled with speed on the slopestyle course, Sadowski-Synnott went huge on her airs and kept plenty of speed for her landings, yet another way in which she proved she is a seasoned competitor beyond her years. “I had a pretty weird build-up to the season; I fractured my tibial plateau at the end of the New Zealand season, so I wasn’t sure if I’d be back for now” Sadowski-Synnott said after her win. “So I’m just so stoked to be back.”“I managed to do what I wanted to do,” the Burton team rider added. In March 2021, I wrote a piece titled, “Is Zoi Sadowski-Synnott The World’s Best All-Around Female Snowboarder?” The headline was intentionally provocative—Jamie Anderson, 31, is the reigning Olympic gold medalist in slopestyle and has won every award out there to be won, and Anna Gasser, 30, has progressed the discipline arguably more than anyone, becoming the first woman to land a cab triple underflip and will likely soon land the first-ever women’s triple. But all around is the key descriptor in that argument. No question, Sadowski-Synnott has proven herself to be an inimitable contest rider. She surprised with a bronze in women’s big air at the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics. After that, she went beast mode, collecting gold in slopestyle and silver in big air at X Games Aspen in January 2019, then two slopestyle titles at the 2019 world championships and the event at the U.S. Open. Then there was her gold at X Games Norway in 2020, and in March of this year, she became the first person ever to defend a slopestyle world championship title at the Aspen 2021 FIS Snowboard and Freeski World Championships. PYEONGCHANG-GUN, SOUTH KOREA - FEBRUARY 22: Bronze medalist Zoi Sadowski Synnott of New Zealand  celebrates poses after the victory ceremony after the Snowboard - Ladies' Big Air Final on day 13 of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympic Games at Phoenix Snow Park on February 22, 2018 in Pyeongchang-gun, South Korea.But what the snowboarding world truly loves about the Kiwi is her versatility and enviable style no matter what she’s riding. In February, Sadowski-Synnott entered the inaugural Natural Selection Tour as a wild card. Snowboarding legend Travis Rice’s branchild is touted as the highest echelon of competitive snowboarding, requiring its riders to excel on both park and all-mountain terrain on natural and naturally enhanced features. That she was the youngest competitor in the field didn’t matter; Sadowski-Synnott easily won the first stop in Jackson Hole, where she faced off against Hana Beaman in the semifinals, earning the highest score of the day with a huge Wildcat and a flawless backside 360 highlighting her run. Sadowski-Synnott advanced all the way to the Natural Selection final at Tordrillo Mountain Lodge, where she put up a hell of a fight against freeride legend Robin Van Gyn.After her slopestyle title at Dew Tour Saturday, Sadowski-Synnott must be considered as a medal favorite at the Beijing Olympics in February, even as she’ll have an incredibly difficult path to gold through Anderson and Gasser. Heading into Dew Tour, Anderson was first in the World Snowboarding Points List, with 934.83 points, and Sadowski-Synnott was second with 886.33. But the young Kiwi is showing us that a changing of the guard is imminent.