Despite widespread backlash against Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) for delivering what appeared to be a fatal blow to President Joe Biden's proposed $2 trillion social spending package, top Democrats are vowing they will continue pushing for the legislation, with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) saying Monday she's "not deterred at all" by Manchin's stance—though she didn’t offer a specific path forward.Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) speaks during a news conference at Democratic National Committee  headquarters in Washington on Nov. 6, 2018. (Photo by MANDEL NGAN/AFP via Getty Images)Manchin, widely considered the most conservative Democrat in Congress, said in a Fox News interview that aired Sunday he "just can't" support the spending package after months of negotiations.With no Republican support and the Senate split 50-50 between Republicans and Democrats, Manchin's position makes it effectively impossible for the bill to pass in its current form.Biden and Manchin spoke on a call Sunday night, according to Politico, which reported negotiations are expected to continue in some form next year—White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Monday the Biden Administration plans to “work like hell” to advance the legislation.Prominent Democratic caucus members, including Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), have publicly blasted Manchin, but Pelosi struck a softer tone Monday, telling reporters "I have confidence that Senator Manchin cares about our country."Pelosi did not offer details on specific steps Democrats hope to take, but set a goal in a statement Sunday to “soon reach agreement so that this vital legislation can pass as soon as possible next year.”Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.), chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, also said Monday that Democrats should continue moving forward, but suggested the best option now is for Biden to attempt to enact some of the proposal through executive action.“I’ve tried everything humanly possible. I can’t get there,” Manchin told Fox News.Manchin had long been leery about the cost of the bill, saying he’s worried the price tag would contribute too much to the national debt and further fuel inflation, even though the White House has repeatedly insisted that won't happen. The key holdup between Manchin and fellow Democrats appeared to be over the continuation of the child tax credit, which was authorized in an earlier Covid relief package, paying out $3,000 a year for each child over the age of six and $3,600 for each child under six to most families. According to the Washington Post, Manchin made a $1.8 trillion counteroffer to the White House last week that didn't include the child tax credit but kept most other major proposals, including the funding of universal pre-k and hundreds of billions of dollars to fight climate change. Many Democrats have touted the child tax credit as one of the great poverty-easing social programs in U.S. history, but Manchin reportedly had concerns that parents might use the money to buy drugs.The hostility by many fellow Democrats toward Manchin has fueled speculation that he might leave the party. Manchin in the past has shot down what he called "bulls***" rumors he was planning to leave, but he appeared to leave a bit more room for thought about his future on Monday. In an interview with West Virginia MetroNews, Manchin said "I would like to hope there is still Democrats that feel like I do," when asked if he had a future in the party. "If there are no Democrats like that, they ought to push me where they want me," Manchin later said.Manchin Says He Won’t Support Build Back Better—White House Calls It ‘Inexplicable Reversal’ (Forbes)‘Quit Playing Games’: Manchin Demands Progressives Pass Infrastructure Package, But Declines Support For Spending Bill (Forbes)Manchin’s private offer to Biden included pre-k, climate money, Obamacare — but excluded child benefit (Washington Post)Manchin privately raised concerns that parents would use child tax credit checks on drugs (NBC News)‘It’s Bulls—’: Manchin Slams Report He’s Planning To Leave Democratic Party (Forbes)