The WitcherI’ve just finished up The Witcher season 2, which I liked quite a bit, probably more than season 1 and its sprawling timelines. Though by the end, one thing did kind of bother me, and I wanted to discuss it here.My issue is with Ciri. Not as a character, but a concept. Let me be perfectly clear here, actress Freya Allen killed it this season as Ciri. She was easily the standout performance of season 2 and one of the show’s best assets, so the issue isn’t with her.Nor am I about to be one of those idiots who declares Ciri a “Mary Sue” and complains she’s too good at everything too quickly. I mean, she has inherent power unlike anything the world has ever seen plus she trains her ass off, as shown this season. Again, not the issue.But I suppose my issue may be with the source material, treading into potentially blasphemous territory, in which I believe Ciri as a plot device is almost too all-encompassing in this world. As in, Ciri is so important to every single character or group we meet, that there is not really room for plotlines that do not connect to her in some way, or are entirely based around her. CiriBy the end of the season (spoilers follow), here’s where we are with everything revolving around Ciri to a kind of absurd extent:Do you see what I mean here? The only person I can say is more or less fully disconnected from Ciri this season is Jaskier (“ah the child of surprise, I’ve heard so much about you!”), but every other thread isn’t just tied to her, it’s consumed by her and her power which has the potential to save or destroy entire kingdoms, races or the entire world. Or multiple worlds.CiriI keep thinking about Game of Thrones, where Daenerys Targaryen felt like a similar character as the Mother of Dragons, Breaker of Chains and all that. And yet, even though she was a hugely important character, and by the end, probably the most important character, the series wasn’t consumed by her, and there was plenty of room for other storylines and other points of character growth not tied directly to her. Meanwhile, Ciri feels like Luke Skywalker, Harry Potter and Neo multiplied times ten. She is the entire story here, and nothing can escape her shadow. I just wish there was a bit more room for other storylines. That’s one thing season 1 did better, as we got more “aside” type stories where Geralt solves some sort of monster mystery. We get one of those extremely early on with his cursed friend, but after that? It’s the Ciri show. Luckily, as I said, Freya Allen makes Ciri a great character in and of herself, and that’s the main reason the season still works as well as it does. But I do feel like her central role isn’t just central, she is the entire story in a way that’s almost overwhelming. Follow me on Twitter, YouTube, Facebook and Instagram. Subscribe to my free weekly content round-up newsletter, God Rolls.Pick up my sci-fi novels the Herokiller series and The Earthborn Trilogy.