Natalie Wood and Richard Beymer performing in the 1961 film 'West Side Story' (Photo by Donaldson  Collection/Getty Images)Something’s coming.As Steven Spielberg’s remake of West Side Story begins to gather award nominations, Long Wharf Theatre has commissioned a sequel to the beloved Broadway musical. While the details are still being determined, the new musical named Maria will focus on what happens to the female protagonist after the curtain comes down in the original show.“What happened to that young woman, Maria, after she walks out of the park after Tony has been murdered?” asked Steven Sapp, who is writing the musical alongside his wife, Mildred Ruiz-Sapp, as a part of the theatre group Universes. “What life does she lead now that she knows hate and murder, ... and where does her story continue?” he wondered.Despite her sister boasting about the benefits of life in America in West Side Story, “the dream of every Puerto Rican is to go back to the island,” remarked Ruiz-Sapp, and the new show will “take Maria and place her within the eye of the storm ... of Hurricane Maria [in Puerto Rico], where she has to take notice of everything that she has lived and everything that has happened to her.” “Interweaving true Puerto Rican narratives, we discover the journey of a starry-eyed Puerto Rican girl through her life’s journey, witnessing what she has experienced and the world she has inspired along the way,” Sapp stated.With the Hollywood remake drawing attention to the original Broadway musical, the creators were thinking about “‘What is our response specifically as artists of color?’” observed Jacob Padrón, the artistic director of the theater. “‘What is our response to this piece that one could argue has been culturally appropriated?’” he said.“Puerto Ricans are still not the ones telling their West Side Story,” complained Boricua College professor Nancy Mercado in an essay published in the new anthology Bigotry on Broadway. “White American men continue to be the ones telling our story, defining who we are and ultimately, as the ‘superior race’ and the dominant class, colonizing us all over again,” she continued.The criticism of the classic musical is not new.There is “a longstanding tradition of critique, protest and creative response by Puerto Rican artists, advocates, and activists that began even before West Side Story’s first preview in Washington, D.C., in 1957 and that has persisted in the seven decades since,” confirmed Princeton University professor Brian Eugenio Herrera. Alongside calls to picket the Broadway premiere, Puerto Rican activist Jesús Colón insisted that the show is “superficial and sentimental,” and “always out of context with the real history, culture, and traditions of my people.”“Latinos need new roles and stories that speak to a Latino public (and beyond), so one would hope that the sequel represents a significant departure from West Side Story,” which is “an outdated narrative filled with stereotypes,” commented Rutgers professor Camilla Stevens.The new show is a part of a larger trend of ethnic groups who feel misrepresented in Broadway musicals choosing to write their own musicals to reclaim their stories.Listening to audiences laugh at sacred Mormon tenets during a performance of The Book of Mormon “hurt my heart,” admitted Brigham Young University professor George Nelson, and he committed to write his own musical about Joseph Smith, the founder of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. “They make fun of almost everything we believe in, and what we have tried to do here is say, ‘look, these are [the] things that are important to us spiritually,’” explained Nelson.“There is a definite message coming out of The Book of Mormon musical, and out of our musical there is a definite message, which says, ‘Take a look again, see for yourself, try to figure this out,” Nelson stated.Named 1820: The Musical, the show premiered in Utah over the summer, and a Broadway producer is interested in the project. “In his estimation,” Nelson said, “this could have as much universal appeal as Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat and Jesus Christ: Superstar, because ... it dealt with human issues and real-life characters.”“He said, ‘The only thing I knew about your religion at all was from what I what I saw in The Book of Mormon musical or Tony Kushner’s Angels in America,’” Nelson recalled. “I knew nothing about your religion,” the producer told him.Now, with their new shows heading to the stage, ethnic groups will finally be given the floor to tell their own stories.